How come the sun didn't used to shine in here?
'cause when we bought the house it was Autumn. This is summer. Feed the dogs.

Right.
Do you see the kids?
Probably out in the back yard.
In Amity, you say 'Yahd.'
The kids are in the yahd, playing near the cah. How's that sound?
Like you're from N'Yawk.
Give me 30 years, I'll get it.

Did you burn another kettle? Y'know you're a fire hazard? This is the third one!
I never hear the whistle.
Feed the dogs.

You want to go through those? I'm taking them to the Thrift Shop. It's Marcia Vaughn's pet charity. Pick out what you want to keep -- it's mostly your city clothes.
I used to wear this to the Garden. Garbage strikes. Dog shit. Muggers. Ship it.
Don't be silly - You're going to make summer better for them...

Cut my hand. Hit by a vampire.
On the swing? I told you not to play near there until I sanded it down. See what your son did?

Don't forget these.
Oh, yeah. How do I look? Older, huh?
I think they make you look sexy.

Sexy, hm? What was I before?
Older, sillier.
I don't want to depend on these things, y'know - sometimes you can weaken your eyes.

Be careful.
Here? You gotta be kiddin'.

Love ya.
Hey Chief. Bring my cup back.

Christine what?
Worthingsly... Worthington -- no one ever died on me before.
You picked her up on the ferry.
I didn't know her.
And nobody else saw her in the water?
Somebody could've -- I was sort of passed out.
Think she might've run out on you?
Oh, no, sir. I've never had a woman do that. I'm sure she drowned.
You from around here?
No. Cambridge. Harvard. My family's in Tuxedo, New York, though.
You here for the summer?
Some friends and me took a house.
What d'you pay for a place just for the summer?
A thousand apiece, something like that. There's five of us. And we each kick in a hundred a week for beer and cleaning, stuff like that.
Pretty stiff.

Where'd you hide the 'Beach Closed' signs?
We never had any. What's the problem?

Polly told me to tell you there's a scout troop in Avril Bay doing the mile swim for their Merit Badges. I couldn't call them in, there's no phone out there.
Get out of there take these back to the office and make up some 'Beach Closed' signs, and let Polly do the printing.
What's the matter with my printing?

What have you got there, Lenny?
We had a shark attack at South Chop this morning, Mayor. Fatal. Gotta batten down the beach.

Who've you told this to, Lenny?
I just found out about it -- but there's a bunch of Boy Scouts in the water a coupla miles down the coast from where we found the girl. Avril Bay, thereabouts. Chief went to dry them off.
Take my car, okay? You come with us, Lenny.
I've got all these signs here...
C'mon, it'll give us time to think about what they're going to say.

Martin! Are you going to shut down the beach on your own authority?
Do I need any more authority?

Now tell me something I don't know.
All I'm saying is that Amity is a summer town -- we need summer dollars, and if they can't swim here, they'll use the beaches at Cape Cod, or Long Island.
So we should set out a smorgasbord?

We're not even sure what it was.
What else could've done that?

...and Bill Mayhew almost caught him in his net...?
Doctor, you're the one who told me what it was!

I don't think you can appreciate the gut reaction people have to these things.
I was only reacting to what I was told.

I can't work in a vacuum. Why don't you make Hendricks Chief? His family's been here since the Puritans -- half this island are his cousins.
Martin, we hired the best man we could find.

You're very tight, y'know? Right there.
Ow. He's gotta be more careful in the water...

Look, I've got to talk to her. This isn't a contest we want the whole country entering.
I agree. If she's going to advertise, I wouldn't recommend out-of-town papers. Amity people could take care of this.
I'm responsible for public safety around here...

I'd like to tell you what we're doing so far. These are some of the steps I've taken as Chief of Police...
What's going on with the beaches, Chief?

I'll get to that in a minute. First, I plan to start our seasonal summer help early, and to use shark spotters on beaches open to the sea. I'd like cooperation from local fishermen, and I've also contacted the Oceanographic Institute over on the mainland.
No need to involve outsiders in our business, Martin.

Only 24 hours!
I didn't agree to that!

Can you stand something to eat?
Love a cup of tea. With lemon.

Mikey loves his birthday present.
Where is he?
He's sitting in it.

Son! -- Out of the water now!
My boat's neat, dad!
I want him out of the ocean.

It's three feet deep, Martin
Michael! Come inside!
It's his birthday present, and you closed the beach, Honey. I told him not to go in the water after what happened yesterday. I don't believe he'll ever do it again.
I told him not to go out until he memorized the handbook and the safety safety regulations, until he was sure of himself...

You wanna call it a night after here?
It's only two-thirty. What, are you tired?
Yeah, Charlie, I got my second wind three nibbles back.

Leg of lamb this time?
Screw lamb -- let's shoot the sirloin!
We're blowin' half the bounty on bait --

One more after this, then I'm going home.
Set?

You do this all the time, right, Charlie?
Twenty years.
I can't believe that people pay money to go fishing. This is really dumb. This isn't even relaxing... it's just boring.

Look at him take it!
Do I set the goddam hook?
Let him do it! Go-go-go-go-go!

...So then Denherder and Charlie sat there trying to catch their breath, and figuring out how to explain to Charlie's wife what happened to her freezer full of meat.
That wasn't funny.

Mrs. Kintner must've put her ad in Field and Stream.
Looks more like the readers of the National Enquirer.

There's a fantail launch out there that won't make it beyond the breakwater.
You're tellin' me. I swear, this town has gone crazy.
Officer, I wonder if you could tell me where I could find Chief Brody?
Who are you?
Hooper, Matt Hooper. From the Oceanographic Institute.

...height and weight may only be estimated from partial remains. Torso severed in mid-thorax, eviscerated with no major organs remaining. May I have a drink of water? Right arm severed above the elbow with massive tissue loss from upper musculature. Portions of denuded bone remaining. -- did you notify the coast guard?
No, it was local jurisdiction.
Left arm, head, shoulders, sternum and portions of ribcage intact. Please don't smoke. With minor post- mortem lacerations and abrasions. Bite marks indicate typical non-frenzy feeding pattern of large squali, possibly carchaninus lonimanus, or isurus glaucas. Gross tissue loss and post-mortem erosion of bite surfaces prevent detailed analysis; however, teeth and jaws of the attacking squali must be considered above average for these waters. -- Did you go out in a boat and look around?
No, we just checked the beach...
It wasn't an 'accident,' it wasn't a boat propeller, or a coral reef, or Jack the Ripper. It was a shark. It was a shark.

Well, if one man can catch a fish in 50 days, then I guess 50 of these bozos can catch a fish in one day -- beginner's luck.
You did it! Did Ben Gardner catch this?

Larry, if you'd see these clowns leave, you'd never believe they'd come back with anything. But they got him!
That's good. That's real good. Ben Meadows getting pictures for the paper.
Sure he is.

Who's that young man?
Matt Hooper, the specialist they send down from the Oceanographic Institute.
I think we all owe a debt of gratitude to these men for catching this monster.

I didn't say this wasn't the shark, I just said I wasn't sure this was the one...
What d'ya mean?
There are hundreds of different kinds of sharks; makos, blues, hammerheads, white-tips... any one of them could've attacked. Look -- shark digestion is slow. We could open this one up, and find whatever he's been eating is still inside.

That's disgusting! This is the largest, meanest, most vicious shark ever landed off Amity Island, and a known maneater!
Let's just cut him open and see what's inside...

Why not, Larry? We could get a positive confirmation that way.
Be reasonable, boys -- this isn't the time or the place to do some kind of half-assed autopsy on a fish. Ben... do you have all the pictures you need?

I'm sorry, Martin. She's in a sick, terrible state.
Look, maybe this is the wrong time to pursue this, but I'm not sure...

She's right.
Let's all get out of here, this place stinks.
I'm going home.

Hi. I'm Matt Hooper. If your husband is here, I'd like to talk to him.
So would I. Come on in.

Would you like something? Some coffee?
Is anyone having this...?

Dynamite! How was your day...?
Swell.

My husband tells me you're in sharks.
I wouldn't put it that way. But I love sharks.
You love sharks?
I do. But you've still got a problem here, there's a shark just off the island somewhere.

How come you have to tell them that?
Excuse me, but what are you talking about? Didn't they catch the shark this afternoon? It was on the Cape station news.

We ought to let it breathe... Whatever.
Let's all have a drink.

You too, sweetheart...
Thank you.

Here's to your husband, the only other rational man on the island. Day after tomorrow, I'll be gone, and he'll be the only one.
You're leaving?
Going out on the 'Aurora.'
Is that a boat?
Is it! The best-funded research expedition to ever study the shark... around the world in 18 months.
Like those Cousteau specials on television? I think it's for the kids, but I love them.
Better than Cousteau, or Compagno with computers, telemetry, Defense Department funding...
I saw a show with sea otters, and a big turtle... Mikey loved it. Made me promise to get him one. Will you live on the boat?
Yep.
Martin hates boats. Hates the water. On the ferry to the mainland, he sits in the car the whole way over. He's got this childhood thing, there's a clinical word for it.

Drowning. Lemme ask you something. Is it true most attacks take place in three feet of water, around 10 feet from the beach?
Yeah. Like the kid on your beach. I wish I could've examined that shark they caught...
Something else. Do most attacks go unreported?
About half of them. A lot of 'missing swimmers' are really shark victims.
There's a kind of a lone shark, called, uh...
Rogue?
Yeah. Rogue. Picks out an area where there's food and hangs out there as long as the food supply lasts?
It's called Territoriality. It's a theory.
And before 1900, when people first starting swimming for recreation, before public bathing and resorts, there were very few shark attacks, cause sharks didn't know what they were missing?
You could say that.

Why don't we have one more drink, you and I, and then we go down and cut open that old shark and see for sure what's inside him, or not.
Can you do that?
I am Chief of Police. I can do anything I want. You want to come?

...And it was Dartmouth Winter weekend, and she was Homecoming Queen, and I was her date; then she got into the fact that her family had more money than my family, and she was right -- her great-grandfather was in mining, and my ancestors were Yankee shipbuilders. So we broke up and I went home with some beatnik from Sarah Lawrence.
What stinks so bad?
Our friend, the shark.

What's that?
Half a flounder. Hmmm... a burlap bag... a paint can... aha!
What? What?!
Just as I thought. He drifted up here with the Gulf Stream, from southern waters.
How can you tell?
Florida license plate.
He ate a car?
No, but Tiger sharks are the garbage cans of the ocean. They eat anything. But this one didn't eat any people. There's nothing here...

...Nothing.
What do we do?
If you're looking for a shark, you don't look on land. You go out and chum for him.
Chum?
Only one sure way to find him -- offer him a little something to eat. Chum -- blood, waste meat, fish, anything. They can sense it miles away. If he's out there, we might be able to get a closer look at him. It's a good time, too. They're night feeders...

What is all this stuff?
Depth-finder, fathometer, sonar, closed-circuit TV -- fore and aft -- RDF, single side band... And two loose nuts behind the wheel.
Can you tell from that if a big man- eater is around?
Sometimes. Look here -- something big, probably a school of mackerel clumped together. And staying right with us.

Where'd you get all this?
I Bought it. Both sets of grandparents set up trust funds for me; stocks went up, so I don't have to touch my principal.
You're at the Institute full time? Or do you have a job?
It is a job. I'm not fooling around like some amateur. It's my life!
We gotta get back soon...

What happened?
I want to check something. Hold my feet.

Don't they have lifejackets or something? An extra boat?
They must've hit something.

He didn't have a dinghy aboard. I'm going down to take a look at his hull.
Why don't we just tow it in?
We will. There's something I've got to find out.
Be careful, for chrissake.

You all right?
A White! A Great White, I found a tooth buried in the hull. He must've attacked... I knew it... Gardner's dead in there. I didn't see the mate...
No shark did that to a boat!

There is a kind of shark called a Great White Shark that every expert in the world agrees is a maneater.
You're situation here suggests that a Great White has staked out a claim in the waters around Amity Island, and that he will continue to feed here as long as there is food in the water.
There's no limits to where he can strike, and we've had three attacks and two deaths in the past few days. It happened like this before, in 1916, when a Great White killed five swimmers at Jones Beach, in Long Island.
A shark's attack is stimulated by the kind of splashing and activity that occurs whenever humans go swimming -- you can't avoid it!
A 4th of July beach is like ringing a dinner bell, for Chrissake!
I just pulled a shark tooth the size of a shot glass out of the hull of a wrecked boat out there.
We towed Ben Gardner's boat in, Larry; he was dead and his boat was all chewed up.

Is that tooth here? Did anyone see it?
I don't have it.

He lost it on the way up.
What kind of a shark did you say it was?

Carcaradon carcharias. A Great White.
Well, I'm not going to commit economic suicide on that flimsy evidence. We depend on the summer people for our lives, and if our beaches are closed, then we're all finished.

We have got to close the beaches. We have got to get someone to kill the shark, we need non-corrosive mesh netting, we need scientific support... It's gonna cost money just to keep the nuts out and save what we have.
I don't thing either of you is familiar with our problems...

I'm familiar with the fact that you are going to ignore this thing until it swims up and bites you on the ass! There are only two ways to solve this thing: you can kill it, or you can cut off its food supply...
That means closing the beaches.

Sick vandalism! Brody, that's a deliberate mutilation of a public service message! I want those little paint-happy bastards caught and hung up by their baby Buster Browns!
That's it! I'm standing here arguing with a guy who can't wait to be a hot lunch. Goodbye.

Wait a minute! I need you.
Out there is a Perfect Engine, an Eating Machine that is a miracle of evolution -- it swims and eats and that's all. Look at that! Those proportions are correct. I know sharks.

You'd love to prove that. Getting your name in the National Geographic.
Larry, we can re-open the beaches in August.
August! Tomorrow is the 4th of July, and we are going to open for business. It's going to be our best summer in years. If you're so concerned about the beaches, you two, you do whatever you have to to keep them safe, but with you or without you, the beaches stay open this weekend.

I hope we get some more help.
I wish it would rain...

You're not going to the ocean with that, are you son?
I'm all checked out for light surf and look at it.
Do me this favor just once. Use the ponds.
Dad, the ponds are for old ladies.
Just a favor for your old man.
Sure, Dad.

My cars. And a comic book.
Here -- Take him home.

Home... New York?
No. Home here.

Got a pen on you?
Why?
There's only one thing you're good for anymore -- signing a damn voucher. Here. It's an authorization to employ a contractor.
I don't know if I can do that without a...
I'm going to hire Quint to kill the fish. I want to see that shark dead.
Maybe we can save August...
Forget it. This summer's had it. Next summer's had it. You're the mayor of Shark City. You wanted to keep the beaches open. What happens when the town finds out about that?
I was acting in the town's best interests...
The best interest in this town would be to see that fish belly-up in the water with a hole in his head. You do the right thing. You authorize me. Right there. Whatever it costs.
My kids were on that beach...
Just sign it, Larry.

This has got to be one big violation...
This is quite a place.

Did you bring a check?
What?
Cash? Or do we do this on a handshake and a promise?
I'm authorized by the township of Amity to hire you as an independent contractor. We'll meet your price. $10,000.
And my regular daily rate -- $200, whether we catch him or not.
You got it.
And incidental damages, if any...
You got it.
And you get the Mayor off my back with this zoning crap. Nobody tells me how to run my property.
You got it.
And, uh, a case of apricot brandy and you buy the lunch.
Two cases. And dinner when you land.
Try some of this. I made it myself.

This is Matt Hooper...
I know who he is...
He's from the Oceanographic Institute.

I've been to sea since I was 12. I've crewed three Trans-pacs --
Transplants?
-- and an America's Cup Trials...
I'm not talking about day sailing or pleasure boating. I'm talking about working for a living. Sharking.
And I'm not talking about hooking some poor dogfish or sand shark. I'm talking about a Great White.
Are you now. I know about porkers in the water -- Here. Tie me a sheepshank.

I don't need to pass basic seamanship.
Let me see your hands...

Ha. City hands. You been counting money. If you had a $5000 net and $2000 worth of fish in it, and along comes Mr. White, and makes it look like a kiddy scissors class has gone to work on it and made paper dolls. If you'd ever worked for a living, you'd know what that means.
Look, I don't need to hear any of this working class hero crap. Some party boat skipper who's killed a few sharks...

Hey. Knock it off. I don't want to have to listen to this while we're out there...
What do you mean 'We...?'
It's my charter. My party.
All right, Commissioner. But when we're on my ship, I am Master, Mate and Pilot. And I want him... ...along for ballast.
You got it.

Hey, Squirt! You want to stow this gear or you want me to use it for ballast? It ain't good for much but bait.
I'll see ya. Tell Dorothy hello.

Hello, Junior. What are you? Some kind of half-assed astronaut? Jesus Christ, when I was a kid, every little squirt wanted to be a harpooner or a sword fisherman. What d'ya have there -- a portable shower?
Anti-Shark cage.
Who's inside, you or the shark?

Colorful, isn't he?
You going to be all right?
Nothing to worry about -- I'll survive this.
I'll see you back soon. There's an extra pair of glasses in your black socks, and there's some suntan lotion and blistex in your kit.

Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum.
What'll I tell the kids?
Tell 'em I went fishin'!

What's that supposed to prove?
Just a little appetizer. I want our porker to know we're serving. I want to put some iron into that big yap...

Keep that chum line going -- we've got five good miles. Don't break it.
Who's driving the boat?
Nobody. We're drifting with the current.

Nothing. Nothing, nothing, nothing.
Hell, in the old days we went out with good charts, good sounding lead, and a damn good compass. Nowadays, these kids are afraid to go out without depth finders, radar, radio, electric toothbrush, every stupid thing...

Watch it! Compressed air -- you screw around with one of those and Boom! Careful, huh?
Real fine stuff but it won't mean a thing to Mr. Whitey, of course... he didn't go to schools in electronics. He was born with what he does best. Eat. He's a swimming appetite. 'Course he might eat this stuff, but then I've seen him eat a rocking chair, too. Next time, ask me.

That's pilot whale, isn't it?
It ain't a Big Mac. The expert don't approve. What do you thing? You're closer to the situation.

Why are we way out here, when the shark's back there?
...'cause this is where he lives. You gotta think like they do.

You got it?
Get behind me, dummy! Reverse her and turn -- he's taking too much line! Wet my reel, quick!

Hey, you! Farmer! Half-speed there...
Aye, Aye SIR. Stand by to repel boarders. Poop the mainsail. Argh, Jim Boy.

Gettin' ready to run again -- no? No? What's he playin' here? Put the gloves on! Let's see who's gonna tease who now!
Let it go, don't waste your time.
Down here, Hooper!

I don't know what it is, but it's not a shark.
Look -- you may be a big Yahoo in the lab, but out here you're just supercargo, and you'll do as I say, or you can take your gear and backstroke home. Now get down here!

The wire's showing!
Unbuckle me -- fast! Grab the leader. He ain't normal, this one... they never --

A marlin, or a stingray. Huh. Don't ever tell me my business again. Get back up on the bridge.
I'm okay...
Fasten the pole.

What's the point with hooks and Lines? --
Don't tell me my business! Quarter-mile, that way. Full throttle.

How -- if they're gonna keep on breaking?
What I do is trick him to the surface, got that? Then I can jab him, understand? Think I'm gonna haul it in as if he's a catfish, like everyone else does?

Over there!
What do you see?
At least you handle the boat all right. Stop. Here... Cut the engine.

20 feet, if it's an inch...
25 feet. And three tons of him there.

I never saw one that big.
What do we do? Get some help? Radio in?

...push this? Oh. It's working. Hello, Martin?
This is Quint, Missus.
I just wanted to know if you were all right... the Coast Guard let me use their radio. Is Chief Brody there?
He's busy.
Well... is everything all right?
Just fine, Missus. We'll be back soon. Everything's fine. We haven't seen anything yet. Orca out.

Why don't we go in? Get another crack at him tomorrow.
We got a barrel on him. We can't lose him. We stay out here until we find him.

Let's call in -- we can radio and have a big boat here in an hour...
You hired me, remember? It's my $10,000. It's my shark...

Wire burn. Trying to stop a backstay from taking my head off.
Moray Eel. Bit right through a wet suit.

Face and head scars come from amateur amusements in the bar room. This love line here... ...that's from some crazy Frenchie come after me with a knife. I caught him with a good right hand right in the snot locker and laid him amongst the sweetpeas.
Ever see one like this?

Bull shark scraped me while I was taking samples...
Nothing! A pleasure scar. Look here --

I'll drink to your leg.
And I'll drink to yours.

...Mako. Fell out of the tail rope and onto the deck. You don't get bitten by one of those bastards but twice -- your first and your last.
I think I can top that, Mister...

Look a' that -- Bayonet Iwo Jima.
C'mon. Middle appendix --
I almost had 'im.

What's that one, there?
Tattoo. Had it taken off.

Don't tell me -- 'Death Before Dishonor.' 'Mother.' 'Semper Fi.' Uhhh... 'Don't Tread on Me.' C'mon -- what?
'U.S.S Indianapolis.' 1944.

What's that, a ship?
You were on the Indianapolis? In '45? Jesus...

What the hell?
It's a whale out there.

He's busting the shaft! Start the pump!
Where...?
The bilge pumps. There --

Easy! It'll tear right out!
The shaft is giving.

That's it! Radio in for help!
Shut up! Just pump her out!
Yeah, Captain, as soon as I make a call.

Coming right to us!
No -- comin' right at us! Slow ahead, he'll hit us head on -- Slower! Throttle back ---

Did you get him in the head?
No! No! No! Swing around! After him!

Don't shoot him any more! He's crazy on his own blood already!
I can't stand here doing nothing!

What about us?
Have to pump her steady, s'all.

He's heading under -- !
No way! He can't!

He can't stay down with three barrels on him! Where is he?!
Have you ever had one do this?
No!

Follow him!
He's under!

He's trying to sink us!
Dead astern! Zig-zag!

He's chasing us! I don't believe it.
Full throttle! To port!

What can that gun of yours do?
Power head with 20 ccs of strychnine nitrate. If I can hit him. I can kill him. But I gotta be close. Very close.

He's comin' up -- !
He's taken him!

Quint...?
No... You think we can get back with those?

What day is this?
Wednesday... No, it's Tuesday, I think.
Think the tide's with us?
Just keep kicking.
Y'know, I used to hate the water...
I can't imagine why.
<|endoftext|>
