Why do I get the feeling when you say some time, you mean some time.
I was already here a good many years when they came in in 1932.
1932? That's like, that's like...
Sixty-five years ago. They always said the farm couldn't hold 'em forever. Looks like you're finally free, boys.

Hey, the dude's holdin'.
Come on, old-timer, hook the brothers up.

Hell of a way to get out. Heard they burned up in that fire yesterday.
I seen the bodies before they sealed 'em up. Them fellas sizzled up good. Looked like some shit from the X- Files. Damn, that shit's nasty.

Ray's special recipe. He always had exacting standards where the hooch was concerned.
What were they, bootleggers?

Oh, no, Ray. Not tonight. Spanky's not happy with you.
Is Spanky here?
No, but...
Then what's the problem?
Do yourself a favor and find another place where they let you in the front door.
But this is where the action is and I have to be where the action is. Look, when your old lady wanted those alligator shoes, didn't I come through for you? Ain't she stepping in style now?
Yeah...
Well, alright then. What do you think about this new tie?
Sharp.
I look good tonight. And I feel lucky, too.

For the kind of money they charge here, you'd think they could hire somebody to actually wash the dishes.
Claude. Here's to your new job down at the bank. I always knew you'd make something of yourself.
Know what I'm going to buy with my first pay check?

Season tickets to the Yankees. Right there on the first base line. What's wrong, baby?
I was hoping you were gonna say an engagement ring, Claude.

Engagement ring!
That's what respectable folks do. Get a job, get married, start having babies. That's what you want, isn't it?
Sure it is. I just don't see any reason to rush into things. Damn, look at this shirt. I'll be right back.

Don't I know you?
I don't think so.
Sure I do. What's your name again?
Claude Banks.
Claude Banks. How could I forget that? You've got to remember me. Ray Gibson. We went to high school together.
You went to Monroe?
That's right! Good old Monroe...

Come on, honey, let's get out of here.
But I'm having a good time...

Here, this belongs to you. It was empty when I found it.
Good old Monroe.

What I want to know is what happened to your cush between the time that you got up from the table and when I caught up with you in the Johnny?
I don't see where that's any of your business.
Did those two muscle heads shake you down? Swear I've seen them down at the track with Sure-shot Riley. That's it, ain't it? A gambling debt.

Where they taking us, anyway?
Probably to Spanky's headquarters down at the pier.
Good, I'm looking forward to meeting this Spanky. Give me a chance to straighten out this whole mess.
I can't wait to see that. You slay me, man.

What are they gonna do to us?
You? Dine and ditch, right? Over ten bucks? You're probably looking at a thumb.
A thumb? What do you mean, like cut it off? For ten bucks? That include the tip?

You don't have to drown that fella, Spanky. You already scared him half to death. He didn't know who he was fucking with.
But you do. What does that say about you, Ray? What does that say about me? I've given you a lot of leeway over the years on account of your father. But he didn't last long enough to teach you the meaning of the word respect so I guess I'm gonna have to school you myself.
Come on, Spank, I'm just trying to get by here. You remember how it was when you were starting out.

What's that, some of your bathtub brew?
Puerto Rican rum. See for yourself.

Where'd you get this?
Comes up the Mississippi. I can get more. A lot more. I was thinking about going into business for myself, but under the circumstances, I'd be willing to take on a partner.

I'm interested. Keep talking.
All I need is the front money and a truck. I could be back in two, three days tops if I had somebody to share the driving.

If you fuck me on this one, I'll spare no expense.
Understood.
Alright, Ray, you've got a deal. Pick your man and get going.

I'll take the little choirboy, if you don't mind.
If I was you, I'd want somebody who can handle himself in a tight spot.
I just want somebody who won't put a bullet in my back once the truck is full.

Come on, daddy-o. You haven't said a word since we started. Least you could do is make some friendly conversation.
Look, man, I don't want friendly conversation. I don't want to be your friend. I've seen your friends and I don't like them. I just want to do this thing and get back to New York in time to start my job.
Start your job? What kind of job?
Well, if you must know, bank teller at First Federal of Manhattan. I'm responsible for keeping track of hundreds, occasionally thousands of dollars.
That's some long green.
Damn straight, it is. I got my own set of keys because I'm supposed to open up. So if I ain't there 8 a.m. Monday morning, there's gonna be hell to pay.

What?
Nothing.
No, tell me what's so funny.
I don't know. Bank teller. Sounds like ladies work to me.
Well, maybe I should dig around in other people's clothes for money. It's obviously been highly successful for you.
Hey, you'd be surprised what you find in other people's pockets. Just gotta avoid them deadbeat bank tellers. Get you every time.
I didn't start out to be a bank teller. I was gonna be a ballplayer. Even had an offer to play short for the Newark Eagles.
Why didn't you take it?
The Negro League don't pay so good. And you're always on the road. That don't wash with Daisy.
You gave up baseball to be a bank teller? I can't latch on to that.
At some point a man's got to get serious about his future. I'm sure you have no idea what I'm talking about.
You're talking about giving up baseball to be a bank teller.
Bank teller's just a start. I got plans. Real plans. Not opening some Zoom-Boom Room. This time next year I'll be a loan officer.
A loan officer?
That's right, a loan officer.
So you mean, if I needed some jack to get my nightclub up and running, I'd have to hype some square like you?
Uh-huh.

How would I get a loan, anyway?
You need collateral.
Like this?
That thing? Who'd you steal it from?
My daddy gave me this watch.
Yeah? Who'd he steal it from?
My daddy is dead so watch your mouth. You can say what you want about me, but don't be dragging my daddy into it. This watch means the world to me. Solid gold. Keeps perfect time.
Looks like a fake to me. Loan denied!

Ah, go chase yourself. I'll take my business elsewhere. And for future reference, you are no longer welcome at Ray's Boom-Boom Room.
There is no Boom-Boom Room.
When there is, you can forget about it. And I swear to God, you ever talk about my daddy again I'm gonna kick your bank-telling, loan-denying ass, you got me?
Oooh...
I think I liked you better when you kept your trap shut.

Maybe we oughta find another place.
Are you kidding? Tell me you don't want a slice of that pie right over there.
I must have left my appetite outside, which is where I think we ought to be right now.

You mean this sign? The one that says "No Coloreds Allowed." That's a good question. Ray, how come we missed the sign?
Look, ma'am, we've been driving all day. We'd just like to purchase one of those pies and we'll be on our way.

Thanks for backing me up here, Uncle Claude.
Don't Uncle Claude me. You get a load of those crackers? Couldn't be a mouthful of teeth among the bunch of 'em. Why you want to pick a fight with people like that for?
You're soft.
What'd you say?

I said you're soft.
Hey, man, don't ever call me that.
I call it like I see it, and what I see is definitely soft.

Alright. You want some pie?
Yeah, I want some pie.
Okay then, I'm gonna walk over to that counter and get us some fucking pie.

How you doing? We're looking for Slim.
You found him.

Man, that music is hot. What goes on down there, Slim?
That's Natchez-under-the-Hill.
Blacks welcome there?
Green's the only color that matters under the hill. They got gambling, girls. You oughta check it out.
Maybe we will. Nice meeting you.

Nice meeting you? You've been here before, haven't you?
What gave you that idea?
Oh, I don't know, maybe because our lives depend on it, I just sort of thought you knew what you were doing!
Don't get all agitated on me. I bought a bottle of rum from a couple of dudes, I heard 'em talking...
Let me get this straight. We drove all the way down to Klan country 'cause you heard a couple of guys talking?
What are you complaining about? It worked out. Everything's cool. Now, come on, let's head down there and see what's shaking. We deserve a little reward.
Reward?
There are people down there having fun. I want to be one of them. I want you to be one of them. On Monday you can be a bank teller if you want, but tonight you're a bootlegger with a truck full of Puerto Rican rum and a fistful of cash.

I've never seen you in here before.
That's because I've never been here before.
I'm Sylvia. What's your name?

Can't you remember your own name?
I know it begins with a "C"...
Well, Mr. "C", how about buying a girl a drink? Two bourbons.
I really shouldn't. I gotta keep an eye on my friend.
He looks like he can take care of himself.

Claude. That's my name. Claude. That's never happened before.
You're cute. You have any money, Claude?
Ten dollars. But I need it to get home.
Why would you want to go home? It's so early.

Hey, Ray. I've been looking for you.
Here I am.
Guess we better get going, huh?
Still got that ten dollars?
Well, not exactly. See, I met this girl. Real nice girl. God-fearing girl. Her name's Sylvia.
That jelly you were talking to right here?
She's in a tight spot. Her mama needs this operation, and they ain't got the money for it. Their church took up a collection but they were still short...
So you made a generous contribution.
What can I say? When the spirit moves me.
That was mighty charitable of you, Claude. Looks like we both got fucked tonight.
What are you talking about?
While you were upstairs doing God's work, I was getting jack-legged by a fool with four threes.
You lost all our money in a card game?
He even got my daddy's watch.
Fuck that cheap-ass watch -- I mean, how the hell are we gonna get home without any money?
We've still got 36 cases of rum. That's better than money.

I think he's hurt pretty bad.
He's dead.
Oh, man, I've never seen a dead body before!

What do you think you're doing?! The man's been dead for two seconds! Don't you have any respect?
It ain't here.
What ain't there?
My daddy's watch. This is the dude I was telling you about --

Yeah, nobody puts 'em away like old what's-his-name.
Winston. His name's Winston.
Come on, Ray, better get Winston back to the truck.

Would you look at that, Ray. Winston up and died on us.
Hell with him then. If he can't share the driving, he can't ride in the truck.

Man, this is gonna delay everything. Spanky's gonna be pissed.
Spanky's gonna be pissed? Poor Spanky. Fuck Spanky! What the hell kind of a name is Spanky, anyway? You're responsible for this situation. I blame you for everything. If it wasn't for you, I'd be home having a hot meal right now.
If it wasn't for me, you'd be washing up on the beach at Coney Island right now. "I need all my thumbs and fingers for praying and doing good."

Besides, why bother with bootlegging when we got us a clear cut case of murder?
Excuse me, sheriff. As we explained to your associate here, there's been a mistake. We didn't kill anybody. Now, as for the bootlegging, we happen to work for a very important man in New York.

Mr. Johnson is very well connected. If you were to let us go, I guarantee he would show you his appreciation, if you know what I mean.
Are you offering me a bribe?
I'm just trying to pay the toll on the road to justice.
You may be able to buy your way out of trouble up in New York City, but down here we take murder seriously.

Life?! How long is life? We were just walking back to the truck. We didn't do nothing! Fuck life!
Life?! What's life mean? There's no way I can do life. I got a job starts Monday morning!

I wouldn't do that if I was you.
Shut up. It's too damn hot. What do you know, anyway?

Why ain't his pick swinging?
Why ain't that pick swinging?

Too hot, huh? Well, you tell that lazy jiggaboo the state of Mississippi ain't interested in his meteorological assessments.
Listen up, jiggaboo! State of Mississippi ain't interested in your... in your... metropolitan assets!
Tell him the state of Mississippi is only interested in getting this ditch cleared by sundown.
State of Mississippi wants this ditch cleared by sundown. You got that?!

I got it... boss.
He don't sound like he's from 'round here.

He's from New York City. That one, too.
New York. That's up north, ain't it? They'll find we do things different down here.

Looks like we got a couple of live ones. How long these boys in for?
Judge gave 'em the long ride.
Life, huh? They step outta line again, we'll shorten up that sentence real fast.

Apparently, your sister died.
Jenny?
No, it says Marleen here.

Appreciate it.
Anybody else need anything read?

How you doin'?
I'm all right.
You ever done time before?
You kidding? I've been in and out of prison my entire life. Mostly in. I'm hard-core.
Then you won't have no problem making the adjustment. You need anything, help of any kind, gimme a holler. Name's Jangle Leg.
'Preciate it. Claude.

Soft and supple. Like a lady's.
I try to moisturize regularly.

Why do you think they call him Jangle Leg?
Somebody just told me he wins the three-legged race every year.
So?
He does it all by himself.

What is that?
Creamed chip beef on toast. Except we're outta beef, so I had to improvise.
Can't I get one of those steaks you got grilling back there?
Those are for trusties, unless you got thirty cents or two packs of cigs.

This fork is filthy.
The fork is the least of your worries, Claude.

What's your name?
Me? Willie Long.
What are you in for, Willie?
That's a long story...

What a second, you've been in here since you were thirteen?
What about you, Radio?

At least he didn't kill Santa Claus with his bare hands.
You killed Santa Claus?

I kinda lost track of how many people we killed that night. Must have been 15 or twenty -- not counting women and children. It was a real bloodbath. All that screaming...
Pack of lies. Don't listen to him. We didn't kill nobody. We were railroaded. And we gonna prove that.
He just blocked it out. Nigger's crazy. He's the one who did all the stabbing. He's capable of some heinous shit. How 'bout him down there?

Goldmouth? They say he was born out back behind the shithouse. That's what they say.
You all been here a long time. Doesn't anybody ever escape from this place?
They run but they never get too far.

Couple years back, Cookie made it clear to Greenville.
Greenville, that the nearest town?

Alright, well, let's say you make it to Greenville. What's there, anyway?
Grandma Dodi's Pork Rib Joint.

No, man. I want you to have it.
Wait up there, Claude. You give that guy your corn bread and the next thing you know you'll be ironing his shirts and clipping his toenails.

Maybe I oughta eat your corn bread.
My corn bread? Oh no, my friend. I love corn bread.

I don't see no wedding ring, Banks. Conjugal visits are for married prisoners only.
You think you could make an exception just this once, boss? She came all the way down from New York.
I don't need the Baptists on my back, but I suppose I could issue a temporary marriage license for a nominal fee.

Biscuit, when you're done with Jangle Leg, you think you could squeeze me in?
Thought you'd never ask. Biscuit needs some gravy.
I'm talking about a haircut.
Cost you a pair of nylons.

Hey, Ray, Goldmouth don't believe me. Ain't it so they got trains up in New York City that run under the streets?
They're called subways. A nickel will take you from one end of Manhattan to the other. Helluva ride, too.

Hey, Ray, you ever been to the Cotton Club?
Sure I've been to the Cotton Club. It's pretty sweet. But it don't hold a candle to the Boom Boom Room. That's where the real action is.

What's the Boom Boom Room?
That's my joint. The swinginest nightclub in town.

You got your own nightclub?
Well, not yet. It's still in the planning stages.

So it don't exist.
Just because it's in my mind, Goldmouth, don't mean it ain't real. Everything worth anything starts with a dream.

Mama?
Rayford!

What are you doing here, mama?
I heard some things so I went to see Spanky Johnson. He told me what happened and gave me some money to get down here. What happened to your face?
Don't worry about that. Hey, fellas, this here is my mama. These are some of my friends. That's Willie, there's Poker Face, Radio, Cookie, Goldmouth, Biscuit, Jangle Leg.

Rayford, I wanted so much more for you than this.
Don't cry, mama. This place ain't so bad as it looks. Sure, we work hard, but there's plenty fresh air and sunshine... And you know something else, I've taken to going to church regular. They got services every Sunday right there in the mess hall.
Don't you lie to me, Rayford. You still have your daddy's watch? Well, this is all I can give you. I wish it was more.

I can't take that, mama.
Don't argue with me. You need it more than I do. I know how a little money can help in a place like this.

I can't believe this. I always said I'd never end up like this. I thought I'd make something of myself, do something with my life. You know, be successful. Have a big house, a family. Now I'm gonna end up just like daddy.
Don't say that, Rayford. Don't ever say that. He gave up hope. That's where you gotta be different.
They gave me life, mama.
I gave you life. And they can't take it away from you. Remember that. You'll get outta here someday. I believe that. You gotta believe it, too.

Did you go see my cousin Maynard like I asked you in my letter?
Of course I did. He said he'd file an appeal right away. You didn't tell me he was so good looking.
Yeah, that side of the family has all the looks and none of the brains. I hope he don't mess things up.
He seemed like a pretty good lawyer to me. His offices take up an entire floor of that big, new building on 125th Street, and he was using all these words I never heard before. He even offered me a job.
A job, huh? Well, that's nice, real nice. You won't have to work long. I'll be back soon enough. After I start work at First Federal Bank of Manhattan, I'll be keeping you in style. Everything will get back to normal again. That's a promise.

Listen, Claude, Maynard wanted to know if he should file the appeal on behalf of your friend, too.
Ray Gibson? No, no. He's the reason I'm in here, Daisy. For all I know, he's got a record a mile long. I got a better shot of getting out of here on my own. You tell Maynard to think about me, concentrate on me. Understand?
Sure, Claude, whatever you say.

We lost yesterday on accounta the rain. That means we gotta make up for it today, so put your backs to it.
You heard the boss! Let's move!

Cookie drew me a map to Greenville.
So?
You know what I'm saying.
Yeah, I know what your saying. And I'm saying if you made it that far, they'd be watching every train that pulls out of that station.
That's why we won't take the train. Cookie showed me where there's a farm house. They got a boat there.
What do you know about boats? I bet you can't even swim.

What I know about boats is they take you to freedom. Come on, man. I think we can do this.
Why are you always talking about we? There is no we. There is a me, there is a you. But there is no we between us.

You want out of this place, don't you? Don't tell me you're starting to like it here.
No, I don't like it here. Look around. There's nothing but ass. Male ass! Balls and ass! Believe you me, I'm getting out of here.
What does that mean?
Forget it.
I'm not gonna forget it. What does that mean? If you've got a plan, I think I have a right to know about it. I told you my plan.
Getting a map from a chubby chef named Cookie? Dragging our asses through the swamps in search of some worm-eaten boat? That ain't a plan, that's a vacation for two in the hole. When you've got a map to New York City, you get back to me.

Hey, Ray, what's the name of that nightclub of yours?
You mean the Boom-Boom Room?
That's it. The Boom-Boom Room. Sure would like to see that place when you get it up and running.
You should have come by last night, Radio. You woulda had yourself some fun.

Last night? What are you talking about, Ray?
I'm talking about old Satchmo nearly blew the roof off the joint.

Who?
Satchmo.

You mean Louis Armstrong?
He's a good friend of mine. Drops by the club whenever he's in town.

That's right, fellas. Catch any cab heading uptown. All the drivers know Ray's Boom-Boom Room.
Hey, Ray...

Where am I at, man?
C'mon, Goldmouth, somebody's gotta watch the front door.

Ray, my man, this steak is like butter!
Made just for you, Cookie.
How about some steak sauce?
No problem. Oh, boy!

Craddock!... Williams... Henshaw!... Banks!
Here!

Maynard Banks, Esquire. Attorney at law.
Gimme that. That doesn't concern you.
I'm sure it don't.

What's up, Ray?
Claude.
Sure is hot today. Think it'll rain later?
What do you want, Claude?
What do I want? What makes you think I want something?
My daddy always said when a man starts talking about the weather keep you hand on your wallet.
Your daddy must have been a helluva guy, a deep man, a wise man. Sure wish I could have met him --
Cut the bullshit. What do you want, Claude?
You still got that map?
Yeah.
Well, if you're still thinking about booking it, I want in. I think we can make it.
We? Did I hear you say we? As I recall, you're the one who said there is no we. Guess we got some bad news in that letter, huh?
Look, my cousin Maynard is a lawyer. He filed an appeal on my behalf --
On your behalf. What happened to we?
The appeal was denied. Then Daisy went and fell for Maynard. They're engaged to be married, can you believe that?
Well, let's just think about that for a moment. He's a successful lawyer up in New York City and you're down here with a bright future in the cotton picking business. Eeny, meeny, miney, Maynard.
Come on, man. Don't shut me out. I'm telling you, you and me, that map, we can go places.
You know what, Claude? This whole time we've been down here, you've done nothing but think about yourself, acting like this whole thing is my fault. That plan with your cousin, did that include me?

No.
At least you're honest for once. So now you want to be my friend? Well, let me tell you something, Claude-my- shit-don't-stink-Banks. You got a lot to learn about friendship.
Does that mean I'm in?
I don't think so, Claude. You'd just slow me down. We'd have to stop every five minutes so you could polish your silverware. There's no way around it, you're soft.
What'd you say?
I said you're soft.
Don't call me that. You know I hate it when you call me that.

All in, boss!
Move it out.
Movin' it out, boss.

You did it, man! You got us out! Next stop, New York City!
New York's a long way's off. Let's just keep moving, okay?

I know these trees all look the same, but I'm getting an awful familiar vibration from this one right here. You sure you know where we're going?
Absolutely. The map is very clear.
Let me take a look at that map.

You call this a map? What was Cookie smoking when he drew this?
Cookie didn't draw it. I did.
You drew this?!
I knew you wouldn't come if I didn't have a map.
That gripes my soul, man. We're out here in the middle of nowhere. There is shit nibbling at my balls! Don't tell me you don't know where we're going!

Come on, Ray, time to go!
I'm stuck!

They ain't men, Mae Rose. They're convicts. And nigger convicts to boot. Can you say nigger?
Nagger?
No, nigger.
Nigger.
That's my girl.

A night in the hole?
Better make it a week.

Don't mention it.
Hell, you'd probably be half way to New York by now...
I'm serious, man. Don't mention it. Ever.

Keep it together, Claude. You wake up the man, he'll shoot you for sure.
He'd be doing me a favor. I'm getting outta here one way or the other! Goddamn rats and shit! Fuck!

All right, man, just settle down. We'll get outta here, Claude. We'll get outta here real soon.
How the fuck are we gonna do that, Ray?!

We'll just get off at the next stop.
Say what?
That's right, we'll get off at the next stop. The train's pulling into the station right now.
The hell you talking about? What train?
We're in the Bronx, my man. Hundred and Sixty First Street.

Hundred and Sixty First Street? That's Yankee Stadium.
Hell, yes, Yankee Stadium. Bombers are playing a double-header against the Red Sox.
Red Sox... Who's on the mound?
I don't know. Who do you want?
Allie Reynolds. He's my boy.
Sure, it says Allie Reynolds right here in the program. He's warming up right now. Man, we're so close to the field I need cleats. How'd you get such good seats?
I know people.
They must be the right people. Whoa, there goes the hot dog man. Let's get a couple. Damn, that smells good. Nothing like a ballpark hot dog, huh?
You get ketchup?
Ketchup? Who eats ketchup on a hot dog? Mustard's what you want.
I can't eat it with mustard.

Give me back that hot dog. I'll eat it myself.
What am I gonna eat?
You can starve to death for all I care. Now shut up, the game's about to start.
Hey, man, is Babe Ruth in the lineup today?
Of course, he's in the lineup. There he goes right there. Hey, Babe...!

We don't need no fences at Camp 8, boss.
That's right. We don't need no fences, we have the gun line. It runs from shack to shack clear around the yard. You are now inside the gun line...

What you're dealing with here is a complete lack of talent.
I'm sick of watching Camp 12 win the championship. Every year they get to roast the victory pig and we get dick. This year I want that pig.

You want to hit? Yo, Claude. Give Can't Get Right a shot.
Him?
Can't be worse than any of these other fools.
All right, grab the bat. Let's see what you can do.

Judge must have money riding on the championship.
Don't matter who Camp 12 puts on the mound. All I know is when this season's over Camp 8's gonna have pork chops.

We get the games on the radio sometimes.
We played down in Jackson yesterday. Heard a rumor you've got a boy up here who can hit the ball a ton.
You probably mean Can't Get Right. That's him over there.
Can't Get Right? That's the kid's name? Can I talk to him?
You can try, but you won't get too far. Why you interested?
Crawford's are always looking for new talent.
Maybe you didn't notice, but this is a prison.
There are ways around that. Right sergeant?

It's amazing what Ray here can do with a couple of pounds of potato skins and some molasses.
So, Blocker, what do you think of our boy?

What about us? Don't forget to mention us.
We're like his handlers. He can't function without us.

She'll be fine. She just had a bit of a shock.
Is Mae Rose okay?
She's doing just fine.
And the baby?
He's a big one.
It's a boy! Well, let's get a look at him.

God may have given it, but Claude Banks spotted it and nurtured it.
Damn straight. I expect those Pittsburgh Crawdads to remember that.
Crawfords.
Whatever.

Alright, listen up! I want every man lined up out here in the yard on the double! Let's move it!
You heard what the man said! Move it!

Don't take it so hard, Biscuit. She don't mean nothin' to him.
Hell with him. It ain't that.

These are free papers.
What am I gonna do out there, Ray? I can't go home to my mama like this. I'll get the strap for sure.
Come on, Biscuit, this is good news. Your mama's gonna break down in tears when you show up on her doorstep.

It's 1945. It's a different world now.
Not for me, it ain't.
Well you can't stay here, Biscuit. This ain't no life for a man. Any one of these fellas would give their right arm to be in your shoes. I sure know I would.

It's a pardon from the governor.
Let me see that.

Yo, Blocker, what's going on here?
Kid's getting out. I got him a pardon.
Yeah, but what about me and Ray? I didn't see our names on that pardon. You said you were gonna put in a good word for us.
I did, Claude. I mentioned you. I mentioned you both. But the fact is, pardons don't come cheap. The kid can hit. What can you do?

Let it go, Claude.
I'm not gonna let it go. The man needs to explain himself. Makin' promises.

Look, I am truly sorry about this. I'd like to help you...
But you can't.
At least the kid's getting out. Isn't this what you wanted?

You show them Crawfords how to play ball.
Make 'em throw strikes.

One of the new kids said they're farming those acres just north of the swamp. He said he saw a crop duster flying around the place.
I'm not in the mood right now, Ray.
He said they keep it parked out behind the barn. Can't be that hard to fly a plane. Lots of people do it.
They're called pilots! I'm serious, Ray. I'm not in the mood for one of your stupid, fucked-up plans right now.
I don't see you coming up with any plans.
My plan is on his way to Pittsburgh right now. That congenital idiot just got himself a pardon signed by the governor thanks to us, but we can't seem to do nothing for ourselves. Don't you feel a little disgusted right now?
Crop duster.
I ain't getting in no airplane with you. I'm finally wrapping my mind around the concept. They threw us in this shithole for life. Don't you get it, Ray? We're gonna die here! Might as well head up to the cemetery, pick a plot and start digging.

My daddy died in prison. He gave up hope and hung himself. What you're talking about is the same damn thing. That ain't how I'm going.
Maybe you're fooling yourself, Ray. Maybe you're just a chip off the old block.
Take that back or we ain't friends no more, Claude Banks.
Here's a news flash, Ray. We never were friends. We've just been stuck together for 12 years. It's been nothing but bad luck since the moment I ran into you. Every time I look at you I get sick to my stomach thinking about what my life could have been if I'd never bumped into Ray Gibson.

Better watch yourself Claude, before you say something you regret.
The only thing I regret is the day I met you.
Well, if that's the way it is...
That's the way it is.
Then I have nothing left to say to you.

Alright Willie, I think I got everything. I'll talk to Dillard, see if I can get up to the infirmary and check up on you. Make sure they're changing your diapers regular.
They'll be sending you up there soon enough. And not just for a visit, neither.
I slipped in a couple of bottles of my latest batch. Help wash down all them pills they'll be giving you.

Yeah.
My name's Yvette. Sylvia sent me. You look just like she said.
She's alright, isn't she?
Oh, she's fine. She's just not coming today.
Why not?
She got married last month.
Married?
Real nice guy, too. Trumpet player. They moved down to New Orleans.

She always said that if you were on the outside...
But I'm not on the outside. I'm in here.
I know she's sorry she won't be seeing you anymore. Anyway, she wanted me to take care of you.
Take care of me?
You know, go to the tonk or whatever.
I'm too old for you. Besides, I'm not much in the mood.
Want me to come back some other time?
Nice girl like you don't belong in a place like this. But if you talk to Sylvia, tell her old Claude said congratulations.

Comfortable?
As a pair of fur-lined bedroom slippers, boss.
We'll see what those slippers feel like after, say, 24 hours. And if you step down off them bottles -- if one toe so much as touches the dirt -- one of these boys is gonna shoot you dead. Let's see. We need a special man for this job.

You're a sucker. I'd have taken that deal.
Excuse me? Are you talking to me?
I'd have knocked you off those bottles, put a bullet in your ass and be half way to New York right now.
After all these years of blissful silence, I almost forgot how annoying the sound of your voice can be.
I hope you don't think I owe you anything. Because I don't owe you a damn thing.
I didn't do if for you, anyway. I just ain't no boot-licking trusty, that's all.

I was sorry to hear about your mama passing.
That was five years ago.
I know, but since we're talking, I thought I'd mention it.
We're not talking, you're talking, and doing too damn much of it, if you ask me.

What?!
You sure looked funny running for those pies, bullets flying all around you.
Bullets weren't the problem. That pie was too hot. Burned my tongue.

Damn dentures slipping again. Everything falls apart when you grow old, eh, Claude? Time sure marches on.
Yes, boss.
You know, I'm fixing on retiring at the end of the summer, gonna try to enjoy what few years I have left. What do you think of this place? It's one of those new retirement communities down on the Gulf.

I apologize, Claude. That was rude of me.
That's alright, boss. Takes a lot more than a colorful brochure to hurt my feelings.
You been on the farm for quite a spell, haven't you?
Over forty years now. Me and Ray Gibson out there.

Forty years. That's a long time for any crime, even murder.
It's a hell of a lot longer when you're innocent.
Half the men in this prison swear they're innocent. Don't you think that's kinda funny?
You have to forgive me if I don't laugh.

You and Wilkins sure are getting chummy. You two planning on going steady, or something?
He's just a lonely old man. He likes to talk.
Hey, I'm a lonely old man. I like to talk, too. So why don't we start by talking about what kind of a plan you're working on?
I'm not working on a plan.
You can't fool me, Claude. I know you got something brewing.
Goodnight, Ray.

What the hell are you doing?
Don't touch that car.

Wilkins' driver's got the flu, so he asked me to fill in for him.
You haven't driven in 40 years, you ain't even got a license. Man's taking his life in his hands, putting you behind the wheel! Where you taking him?
Greenville. We're picking up the new Superintendent at the bus station.

You know I trust you, Claude.
Yes, sir.
I'll be right back.

Damn, it was getting hot in there.
What the hell are you doing in that trunk?!
You didn't think I was gonna let you escape alone, did you?
I ain't escaping! We're picking up the new super just like I told you.
Then you're lucky I came along. Doesn't take a visionary to spot a golden opportunity like this. Now help me out of this trunk.
You ain't getting out of that trunk.
Come on, man, I'm starting to cramp up here. We have the chance right here, right now, I say we go!
Go where, Ray?
Back to New York for starters.
And what will we do when we get there? I'm sixty-five years old, Ray. So are you. What are we gonna do out here? Get married, have kids, settle down? That boat sailed without us, man.
This boat's gonna sail without you, too. I don't care if I last one day out here. At least it's one day of freedom. Now gimme those keys.
Forget about that. You run if you want to, but you're not taking this car.
Claude, man, I'm serious. Give me those keys.
I ain't spending a month in the hole so you can take a joy ride.
Don't make me take them away from you.
Hey, there's Wilkins!

You sure it was him?
Some faces you just don't forget. Warren Pike's is one of 'em.
I don't like it, I don't like it one bit. We shoulda taken that car when we had the opportunity. We'd be half way to New York by now.
We'd be in the hole by now. Hey, man, you're peeing on my shoe.
I know. Simultaneously, they shake and zip. Claude bends down and picks up a bowl of gumbo, placing it on a tray next to an identical one.

Lemonade?
I prefer bourbon.
I'm sorry, I don't keep any liquor in the house.
Well, fortunately, I carry my own.

Hunting's been pretty good on the farm the last few years. It's one of the perks of the job. If you're interested, tomorrow I could show you some of my favorite spots.
You don't have to twist my arm. Say now, that gumbo has quite a kick.
Thank you, Claude. That'll be all for tonight.

Goodnight, Mr. Wilkins. Mr. Pike.
Goodnight, Claude.

If you don't mind my saying, you seem mighty familiar with your house boy.
I believe in treating the convicts with respect, if that's what you mean.
Respect? Well, isn't that progressive.
If somebody deserves respect, Mr. Pike, they receive it from me, convict or no convict.

Yeah, it's getting late. I could sure use a bath.
That's a real nice watch you got there, sir. Fancy old thing even plays a little tune.
Yeah, it's special. They don't make 'em like this anymore.
Sure don't. Mind if I ask where you got it?
Why, my wife gave it to me on our anniversary some years back.

Must have been some time ago. Maybe forty years?
Something like that, yes.
She give you that scar, too?

I oughta shoot you for that comment, boy.
Like you shot Winston Hancock?

What's going on here?
I'm afraid I'm gonna have to teach this uppity nigger a lesson in manners.

Cool it, Ray. You're gonna get us in a lot of trouble.
He's right, Gibson. Put down the gun and we'll work this out.

I'm gonna work this man's brains out the back of his head.
Shoot him, Wilkins!

Don't shoot, sir. I can deal with this. Ray, buddy, you don't want to shoot this white man. See, you do that, they'll kill you for sure. And it's not that I like you or anything, but I've kinda gotten used to having you around.
He's got my daddy's watch, Claude. I always knew whoever took that watch killed Winston Hancock. And that was you, Mr. Pike.

He's crazy. Don't listen to him, Wilkins.
Do you realize what your saying, Gibson?

That watch was the only thing my daddy ever gave me. It meant the world to me.
Goddamn it, Wilkins, would you please just shoot the nigger!
He shoots me, I swear I'll take you with me! I just want to hear you say it.

Is there any truth to what he's saying, Pike?
What difference does it make? Natchez was better off without Winston Hancock! Who cares if a couple of no- account bootleggers went to jail for his killing? At least the state of Mississippi got 40 years of cheap labor out of the deal!

No, I'm gonna kill him --
No, believe me, I'm gonna kill him!

I can't do it.
That's because you're soft. Gimme the gun.
What'd you say?
I said you're soft.
Don't call me soft, I hate it when you call me that.

Why don't he just tell 'em the truth?
He knows nobody wants to hear the truth.

Claude, mind helping me to the bathroom?
Sure, boss.
I'm not your boss. Not anymore.

So Ray and Claude got their pardons, right?
No, they didn't get their pardons, you dumb shit! If they'd got their pardons way back then, we wouldn't be burying them today, would we?
Oh, right. Well, why didn't they get those pardons?

Old man Wilkins' never came out of that bathroom. Died right there on the crapper.
Just like Elvis.
Of course nobody believed Ray and Claude.

That musta messed 'em up pretty bad.
What happened to 'em after that, Willie?

Nurse Humphries was checking my prostate this morning. I got an erection.
An erection, huh? Haven't had one of those in a while.
Tell me about it. Scared me at first. Then, before I could figure out what to do with it, it was gone. Imagine my disappointment.

Sure would like to see the house that Ruth built one more time.
Well, Ruth shoulda built it a little better. Damn thing's falling to pieces. Gonna hurt somebody.
What do you expect? It's almost as old as we are.
They oughta tear that shit down and ship them Yankees cross the river to Jersey.
Remember what that place looked like on a sunny spring day? More beautiful than any church I was ever in.

Over to the morgue and up the hill to the cemetery. Never thought I'd admit it, Claude, but you were right.
'Course I was right. About what?
You're the one who said that boneyard's the only way we're getting out of here. We're gonna join all the rest of 'em soon enough. Jangle Leg, Biscuit, Goldmouth, Poker Face, Cookie, Radio -- yes sir, pick a plot and start digging...

Are you trying to tell me after all this time you finally have a plan for busting out of here?
Shh! Is that so hard to believe?
Don't tell me, I don't want to hear it. It's probably all fucked up, anyway.
You don't want to hear it, you don't want to hear it. There's no shame in that.
It's too late for plans.
Never thought I'd hear Ray Gibson say that. Hell with you then. You'd only slow me down anyway.

Is everyone here?
Hey, where's Claude? I don't see Claude!
Stay calm, Ray. We'll find him. Claude! Has anyone seen Claude?
He must still be in there.

Wait for the firemen!
It'll be too late.
You can't go in there, Ray! You'll never make it!
I'm going in for him. He'd do the same for me.

Man, you really bummed me out. That's a terrible story. Nigger, you crying?
Hell, no! I just got something in my eye.

It's alright for a man to cry once in awhile. Just don't make a habit of it.
Hey, Willie, what was Claude's plan, anyway?
Nothing to it, really. Claude figured they could steal a couple of bodies from the morgue. They got a couple of crackers working there don't know their asses from their elbows. Then they was gonna set fire to the infirmary and make it look like those bodies was them that got stuck inside. Claude figured during the commotion, it wouldn't be too hard to slip onto one of the fire trucks and hang tight until it rolled right on out of here in the morning.

What do you think about that?
I think that old man lost his marbles about a hundred years ago. Come on, let's get this over with.

I can't eat this.
Why the hell not?
I saw that hot dog guy in the bathroom urinating. He didn't wash his hands.

Just put some mustard on it and eat it.
You didn't get ketchup?
Gimme that damn thing.

Hell of a day for a ballgame, huh, Claude?
Hell of a day, Ray. Yankees are on fire.

No, this ain't gonna work either. It's half chocolate, half vanilla.
So?
They're touching.

If you don't eat that ice cream right now, I'm gonna strangle you until you are completely dead.
Yeah? You and what army?
Next thing, you're gonna be complaining about the seats.
Well, if you must know, they could be closer.
Damn, I shoulda let Spanky Johnson drown you in the river when I had the chance.

I know you're not talking to me...
I'm sorry, he's on medication...
<|endoftext|>
