O'Reilly!
Yes, sir?
Dammit, Radar, wait till I call you! Tell Major Burns...
One of the surgeons from the day shift will have to stay on duty tonight?
Yes, dammit, and...

O'Reilly, what is it? There aren't more choppers coming?
I'm afraid so, Colonel.
We've got too many wounded for us to handle now! Get on the phone right away and...
Yes, sir, I'll see if I can reach General Hammond in Seoul for you. You think he'll finally break down and give us two more surgeons?

My name's Hawkeye Pierce.
Duke Forrest.

You got directions?
Ayuh, only it's early, I need a drink to wake me up.
I got some.

Make it yourself, or is it real?
Georgia, where I come from, it's real if you make it yourself. But I been buying from the Yankee Government since they put me in this soldier suit and give me a rate.
Tax-free booze. It's about all you can say for army life.
Where you from with that crazy way of talking?
Crabapple Cove. Maine.
Damn! That must be about as far north as you can get.
Pretty near. What do you know about the outfit we're going to?
C.O. is Colonel Blake. Lieutenant Colonel Henry Braymore Blake. One of them regular army clowns. Push you around so it's hard to get any decent work done.
We got to head them off, right at the start. Push them around first.

What's the initials 'MP' stand for, Hawkeye?
Shore Patrol, Duke. Let's go!

Must be the Famous Curb Service Whore House. You in the market Duke?
I done my shopping in Seoul last night.

Well, there it is. Jesus!
The spot we picked to spend the winter. Maybe we ought to look a little harder.

What do you think of that piece of scenery, Yankee boy?
Finest kind. We'll sit where we can get the best view.

I'm Colonel Blake. You fellows just passing through?
Nope, we're assigned heah.

Y'all were short a couple cutters and we're what the Army sent.
Don't you know the first thing you're supposed to do at a new post is present yourself to the commanding officer with your orders?
Reckon so, but we been boozing all day and you work up an appetite.
You're welcome to one of these, whatever they are.
They give you copies to burn.

Good. You've both been working close to the front.
Never this close.
They've hit us on Cherry Hill. I just got word. We have our slack periods but when the action starts, you'll have more work in twelve hours than a civilian surgeon does in a week.

Colonel Blake, have no fear. Hawkeye and Duke are here.
That's right, pal. You just sit up front and sign the mail, and leave the cutting to us.

I may need you to go to work practically immediately. But meanwhile perhaps you'd like to meet some of your fellow officers.
Just one for a start.

The blonde dish.
If you mean... She is a lieutenant in the Army Nursing Corps, Captain.
Okay, Lieutenant Dish. I guess she's already... involved with somebody here.
They've all tried. Nobody's got to first base.

Glad to know you. Drop in at my clinic anytime you feel like playing a little poker, or even if a tooth is bothering you.
Poker sounds great. When do you play?

Sir?
Don't do that, Radar! You make me nervous.
Sir?
Don't come so quickly when I call. I want you to take these officers...
To Major Burns' tent. Yes, sir.
Stop that, O'Rielly!
Sir?
Oh, get out of here!
Yes, Colonel.

Thou. For Thou art with me. Welcome, welcome, welcome!
What the hell's going on here?
This is Ho-Jon, my houseboy. Our houseboy. I'm teaching him English.
Where's he gonna use that kind of talk? 'The valley of the shadow of death.' Wait a minute, Ho-Jon... I got something for you.

Little light reading matter. Just right for his age.
Well, southern boy, I suppose you want the sack that's convenient to the door.
And gets the wind every time it opens. No, thanks. I'll take that one.

Two-man job. How much blood has he had?
Second pint.
Duke...

This kid's ready but we won't know all the damage till we get in and see what's happened. What have you got?
Nothing can't wait. Shall we check it out with the Major?

Isn't this ridiculous, Doctor? Six months I've been here and there are still times when I can't stand it. I just go to pieces.
There's nothing ridiculous about it. A kid like you...

Thank you, Captain Pierce. It's been so long.
No trouble at all. Hawkeye.
How did you get called that?
'The Last of the Mohicans.' Only book my father ever read.

You're getting a workout, you and Captain Forrest, your first night.
It isn't always this rough?
Oh, no. We have dull stretches every week or so, thank God, when there's nothing to do after midnight.
They don't have to be dull. I mean if you and me put our minds together...
Our minds?
For a start. I just have a hunch... well, it isn't entirely a hunch...
You're an attractive man.
You have a certain modest charm yourself.
But I'm married.
Something else we have in common.
Very happily married.
Same here.
And absolutely determined to be faithful to my husband. Do we have that in common, Captain?
It's a matter of definition. Faithful in spirit, yes.
I don't make the distinction. But the sex urge is a powerful force. In women just as much as men.
Ayuh.
You'd think now, with only six weeks before they ship me back home, it would be easier. But it isn't.
Of course not.
It's terribly hard. Sometimes the temptation is just too much.
Then why not, as long as it wouldn't hurt anybody...?
But you've made me feel strong again, Captain. Hawkeye. You helped me pull together when I needed it.

Now that's what I call real pretty. We can close up here and go into his belly.
He can't take much more time on the table.
So we got to cut him fast. I figure from the X-ray it ain't just the spleen. We also got to snatch his right kidney.

Good morning, Captain Pierce and Captain Forrest.
You can cut the bow.
I have not understood what you means.
That. It's out of the act.

Because is not democrash? All peoples created equal?
Hey, you been sneaking some reading outside the frigging Bible!
I have great interest for America, his peoples and his custom.
Good, because we got a fine old American custom we want to teach you. You know what these are?

Is that liquor?
Finest kind. We're training Ho-Jon to be a bartender. Join us?

But first will you please kindly shut the goddam door?
I don't drink intoxicants.

Christ Almighty, I think he means it!
We been had.

I don't believe it's right for you to involve a boy who's not seventeen years old yet...
The door, Frank, the door! Where you from anyhow, Alaska?
Wisconsin.
Same general idea.

Officer all sleep now, yes? And I go wash clothes.
Right, Ho-Jon. See you later.

So long, Ho-Jon.
You make a mean martini, kid.

Give us this day our daily...
You ever caught this bread, and forgive our syndrome before, Duke?
...trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against...

Us. Lead us not into...
...No cases over the age of temptation but deliver us eight. from evil. For Thine is the kingdom, the power and...

...And for our young men on the field of battle, that they may return home to their dear ones...
Come clean with us, Frank. Were you on this religious kick back home, or did you start to crack up here on the post?
...And for our Supreme Commander over here and our Commander-in-Chief in Washington.

We've stuck it out for a whole week now... Pretty girl.
We sure don't aim to cause any trouble... Yeah, she seems to grow on you.

You don't aim to cause any trouble But?
But we strongly suspect something will happen to screw up this splendid organization of yours if you don't get that sky pilot out of our tent.
Your tent?

Yeah, maybe move that nurse in. She don't seem the type to keep you awake praying.
I have been in this Army a long time. I know just what you guys are up to. But there are limits...

We'll find out what they are when you throw us out.
That's all the commitment you're offering me? Or do you have some more extravagant gesture of cooperation?

No, Hawkeye just said it all.
Except we forgot one other small thing.
What's that?
The chest-cutter.
Yeah, that's right. You better get us a chest-cutter before there's trouble.
This outfit needs somebody who can find his way around the pulmonary anatomy when the bases are loaded.
And it's the ninth inning.

Yes, O'Reilly?
How you, Radar?

You boys'll have to go to work early.
You fixing to add overtime to a twelve- hour day? The union ain't gonna like it.

You work those kind of hours, you got to have rest. Which you can't get with somebody jabbering away on a direct line to heaven.
Major Burns will be out of your tent in twenty-four hours. Tell them Captain Pierce and Captain Forrest are on their way.

About that chest-cutter...
I'll try, d-d-dammit! You can't ask any more than that!
We don't want any more than that. Right now.

Even if I weren't.
Maria...

Hi, Ho-Jon. How they goin'?
Finest kind. Captain Forrests say you better haul ass home quick. We got new chest-cutter in our tent.

Now I got you for a witness, I'm going to try again. So far all I dragged out of him is he's from Bahston and he's only been in the Army two months. Where were you when they drafted you?
Home.
I mean, what were you doing? Were you a resident or on a staff someplace?
That's right.
Where?
Hospital.
Which hospital?
Back home.
Is there any reason why we shouldn't know the name of it?
No. Or why you should.

I think I've seen this nut somewhere. Haven't I?
If you don't know what you've seen, why should I?

Don't you use olives?
Where you think you are, boy? They probably never seen a olive in this country.

That's the front up the road a few miles. We have to get by without some of the comforts of home.
I like an olive.

Jesus to Jesus and eight hands around! Duke, did I ever tell you how I beat Dartmouth by intercepting a pass?
Sixteen times.
We didn't have a chance, little Androscoggin College against the Big Green, but there was this blizzard and we held then nothing nothing till the last twenty seconds. Then this great passer of theirs let one go, snow and all...

Lucky you didn't have your mouth open or it would have gone down your throat.
He's Trapper John! Only man in history who ever found fulfillment in the ladies' can of a Boston and Maine Railroad car! When the Conductor caught him in there with his Winter Carnival date, she screamed: 'He trapped me!' What have you been doing since those days, Trapper?

Must be Painlees Pole Day in the Shower Tent.
You met him. Walt Waldowski, the Dental Officer.
Nice guy, for an enamel surgeon.

What are they peeking at? Captain Waldowski in the shower?
Part of him. Painless is the owner and operator of the Pride of Hamtrack. That's where he comes from... Hamtrack, Michigan.

Best equipped dentist in the whole goddam Army. Care to have a look, a man with your background?
Way we hear it, the Pride is supposed to have run up the highest lifetime batting average ever recorded in Wayne County.

This kid looks like a loser. Maybe we better get the bead-jiggler to put in a fix.
Call Dago Red.

There's sort of a built-in prayer for the sick man to get well, but of course that's not the basic intention.
I don't care about the intention. I just know your Cross Action is a plus on our side. I've seen it come through four times.

And you've had a natural four times in a row in a crap game. Right? Does that mean...?
Not without lots of praying and kissing the dice. It's a different ritual but it works the same.
What do you think, Trapper?

...But I turned in my knee pads.
Ho-Jon, give the Father some more martini.

We wanted to tell you how you were helping us with your fixes.
Well, sure, but I'm also worried about Walt Waldowski Painless. His poker players got in an argument and asked him for a ruling, and he said what difference did it make, it was just a card game.

If a man isn't a man anymore, what's he got left to live for?
Tell me the whole story, Walt.
There's this native broad works in the laundry. I don't know if you've noticed.
There's only one worth noticing.
You noticed. I wasn't going to fool around over here. I've got these three girls I'm engaged to back home...

But I had this feeling I ought to make the effort. To test myself. And I flunked.
What did you have to test, for God's sake... the dental Don Juan of Detroit?
Don Juanism is just a cover... I've been reading up on it. I'm a fake, I'm a fraud, I've been living a lie!

Painless, you mustn't talk that way. It's a lot of crap. Cover for what?
Homosexuality.

Now I know that's been my problem since I was a kid. But it only caught up to me last night.
You've been drawn to other males? Since you were a kid?
No, never in the slightest.
Just in dreams?
Or in dreams either. I repressed it completely. Classic pattern of inhibition.
That's what you've been doing all these years with every dame you could lay your hands on? Repressing your real self?
But it's all over now, and I can't face it. Imagine if you found out you were one, you wouldn't like breaking the news to your wife. Well, I got the same problem multiplied.
You don't have any problem. You've got thirty good years ahead of you, easy. Maybe you'll have to cut down as you grow older, get along with just two fiancees, but...
No, one thing I finally know for sure, I'll never function with a woman again.

There ought to be a law against dentists reading. Matter of fact, I thought there was. Anyway, this is an obsession. He can't be persuaded out of it.
He's comin' this-a-way! The jaw- breaker!

Y'all just act natural.
Get out the scotch, Ho-Jon. Don't mention the sex thing unless he brings it up.

How you, Walt? We was just fixing to have a nightcap.
Pour one for Painless.

Miss you, Walt.
He said it for us all, Walt.

That's really what I came here for. See what you guys recommend.
Well, I'm sure my colleagues will agree there are a number of dependable measures for extinguishing the vital forces.

Black capsule.
The black capsule. Finest kind. Thank you, Dr. McIntyre.

In the direction you want to go.
You guys got any black capsules?

How they goin', Losing Preacher? What do you hear from the Pope?
You talked to Walt?
He's parted his moorings.

We're throwing him a Last Supper. We came to invite you.
The Painless Pole plans to cross the Great Divide tonight and we need your help to straighten him out.

What do you want me to do?
Put in one of your fixes. Walt knows he's loused himself with the Church, but it's part of our plan to make him think he has the keys to the kingdom. Which he will think if you grease the skids for him.
I don't think I can give absolution to a man who's about to commit suicide. It's a mortal sin.
What is, Red, the intention or the act?
I believe it takes both. I'd have to look it up.
Just use common sense. Your job is preventing sin, and the way to do that is give him your best Cross Action.

Or you can let him knock himself out. You personally'd be sending him to his grave.
An eternal damnation.

We stand behind all our work.
You want it straight? Medical history records no instance of anyone taking this particular prescription and surviving.

How much time do I have?
Just about enough to say goodbye to everybody. Line up over here, men, if you want to pay your last respects. Keep moving and file on out when you're through.
I wonder, if Red's fix swings it for me, what's heaven really like?

It's a bedroom where a man is always at his peak and doesn't have to take any time outs.
And all the angels are built like Lieutenant Dish.

I couldn't have slept tonight anyhow.
You're leaving tomorrow?
In less than twelve hours I'll be on my way.
That's when the real strain starts. Three weeks on a troopship. Poor baby.
Dear, sweet Hawkeye.
Though I guess who it'll really be rough on is your husband.
You're on his side all of the sudden?
A man would be more considerate. He wouldn't come home to his wife a nervous wreck.
How would he avoid it... as if I needed to ask?
It could be a purely impersonal thing. What matters is the therapeutic value of relieving your tensions.
You should have been a marriage counselor. But I'll show you what's wrong with your theory.

Do you think anything between us could be impersonal? Or pure? You better forget logic, because you're proving why I shouldn't go to bed with you.
I didn't mean with me.

You're asking for somebody else?
It happens to be a matter of life and death.
A man is going to die if he doesn't have my fair young body?
Precisely, Maria. Tonight you have the same privilege that comes on rare occasions to the chief executive of some state or nation... the privilege of restoring life, by one tender act of mercy, to a doomed fellow creature.

He should come to now for a while, but he's got so much dope in him by tomorrow he won't know fact from fantasy.
You think he won't.
What do you care? You'll be on your way to Japan.
I'm fond of Painless, and I'd feel terrible if anything happened to him...
It's your decision, Maria. I don't want to high-pressure you.
I'd be crazy to think my virtue, such as it is, was more important than his life...
In fact I'd rather not try to influence you at all. Let's just go in and take a look, and then you think it through for yourself.

Morning Painless. How they goin'?
Big day. Two jaws to rebuild.

What's going on? Who started this?
You mean who hit who?
Yes, that's what I mean.
I did. First and only blow. So far.

If you say so, Henry. But remember my claustrophobia.
I deeply regret this unfortunate incident. We try to remember we're a military organization.

What's wrong with you?
I don't know. I must have lost my punch. I didn't think the son-of-a- bitch would get up.

Stop acting like a colonel, Henry. You know Trapper wouldn't sock him without a good reason.
There's no reason good enough for one medical officer to strike another.

That there Frank Burns is a menace. Whenever a patient croaks on him it's either God's will or somebody else's fault.
This time he did it to a kid who's simple enough to believe him. Why don't you dump the mother, Henry? He creates more work than he gets done.

I should fire him because he got in the way of Trapper's fist? No. I've put up with a lot from you guys, but now I finally have to take disciplinary action.
Christ. All of a sudden it's West Point.

What are you going to do with him?
Well... I was going to name you Chief Surgeon... To consult on both shifts, yours and Frank's.
Hey, that's great, Henry! Good thinking!

First decent idea you've had in a month.
Now I'll have to wait at least a week. If I announced it tomorrow, after what our new Chief Nurse saw this afternoon, they'd hear her yelling from Seoul to Washington.

Captain Pierce, would I be imposing...?
Honey, nobody as pretty as you could ever impose... please sit down. Coffee?

Captain, I've been observing the nurses on your shift. But naturally your own opinion is more informed than mine.
I'm glad you feel that way, Major, because you see it's a team effort... doctors, nurses, enlisted men... and I feel responsible for my whole team, and I want you to know I'm satisfied with them.
All of them?
That's right. We work well together.
Major Burns is far from satisfied.
That don't surprise me. If you're a good observer, you must have observed by now that Frank Burns is a jerk.
On the contrary, I've observed he's not only a good technical surgeon, he's a good military surgeon. And that includes how a man dresses and how he bears himself and his sense of what it means to be an officer in the United States Army.
And his track record, that don't count? Look, honey, when you watch the two shifts try to notice which one does the most work with the least fuss.
I've noticed that both nurses and enlisted men address you as 'Hawkeye.'
It's my name. Maybe that sounds silly to you but...
That kind of familiarity is inconsistent with maximum efficiency in a military organization.
Okay, Major, honey. I'm going to have a couple shots scotch and go to bed. I'd normally ask you to join me but obviously you're a female version of the routine Regular Army clown. And that turns me off, so just leave my outfit alone and we'll get along fine. See you around the campus.
I wonder how a degenerated person like you could have reached a position of responsibility in the Army Medical Corps.
Sister, if I knew the answer to that I sure as hell wouldn't be here.

There's no point appealing to Colonel Blake. They've got him bewitched.
No. The only thing to do is write General Hammond. But it's hard to find a place around here for a private discussion.
I have a tent to myself.
People will talk.
I don't mind. If we give them something to talk about.

I think it's a marvelous letter.
We're a good team.
We think the same way.
It's supper time. But you're not hungry are you?
Ravenous. What about you?
Well, sure, if you are, Margaret...
Anyway, we want to get this letter off.

Hail to the chief! We-all got a responsibility, men. He's crowned like a king ought to be, but he can't just walk to the Mess Hall by himself. He has to be carried by native bearers.
Good thinking, Duke. How about it, Ho-Jon? Can you round up a few of the boys?

Never mind. Forget it.
A native is someone who is born in a particular place.

And if I go to New York, the natives there will carry me? I don't think so.
I don't think so either.

I don't think I should have opened my big mouth. Sorry, Ho-Jon.
That's okay. Live a little, learn a little.

Very well, Your Majesty. Congratulations, Frank. He picked you.
No, no, that one.
Oh, you want to play it straight? I guess I owe you an apology.

Godless buffoons, all of them.
It's that disrespect for you, that's what I can't forgive them.
Oh, I'm used to it. What makes me sore is how they behave towards you. They ought to be grateful to have you. I certainly am.
And I'm grateful for you, Frank, especially with those boors around. We've grown very close in a short time.

Frank...
Don't stop now! Please...

Wait a second...
I can't... couldn't.

Good morning, Colonel.
Morning, Radar. How were things?
Splendid, sir. No problems.
Morning, Captain.

Morning, girls. Good morning Major.
Good morning.

I was just asking...
Shut up or I'll tear you apart.

Can you make out what they're talking about?
I can try, sir.

I only wanted to know what she's like in the sack. Do those big boobs hold up or are they kind of droopy?
Hawkeye's asking the Major's opinion on a point of anatomy.
Also I'm curious whether she's a moaner or...

It was really nice of you to take me along.
I didn't have much choice.
You really say the cutest things.
Yeah!

You please excuse... I have been making examination of this young man to find if he will be soldier in our army.
Yes, I know. Hi, Ho-Jon. How did it go?
I don't liking it at all, what I hear when I listen to the heart. And such a blood pressure for so young a boys. Is frightening.
I'm sorry to hear that. You think he's unfit for military service?
At first is no doubt. But then I am seeing on his paper he work in American hospital. And I think there are so many drugs in such a places, he could take some by mistake.
Why would he do that?
Who is knowing? But the drug I have find in his urine is solving all mysteries. By tomorrow will be gone his fast heart and high blood pressure. So I think maybe you will like to tell him goodbye. Okay?

I came within about ten yards of you. You know something, Trapper, the way we been going, if we ever got to see a real golf course again, I bet we could burn it up.
As far as the greens maybe. I don't know if my putting would come back or not, without some practice.

I'm not so sure the goddam thing's in his heart.
'Course it isn't, but how many chances do we get to go to Japan? With our golf clubs.

Let me translate. I've had some exposure to the language. The young man is from Brooklyn and he wants us to vacate this vehicle.
But weren't you supposed to meet the surgeons who are going to slice up the Congressman's son?

But besides the operation, we've got to get in at least eighteen holes of golf.
So let's haul ass, Sergeant.

Look.
Beautiful. What do you think? Should we stop and play nine holes now and operate on the kid later? If he's still alive.

Don't worry, son. That's Captain McIntyre, and he's the best chest surgeon in the Far East and maybe in the whole U.S. Army. He'll fix you up fine. Your daddy saw to that.
Just like we thought, it's a routine problem. Nurse, who's in charge of operating room preparations?

Okay, I'm closing up. Everybody relax.
May I have the surgeon's name, please?

He's the pro from Dover and I'm the Ghost of Smokey Joe.
Save that crap for the rest of the clamdiggers back home.

Did I ever tell you about Me Lay Marston?
Your high school friend who went around saying 'Me lay, you lay?' to all the young females in the community. As I remember, you said it was quite a successful approach.
Well, he wouldn't score more than once in seven or eight tries, but the important thing was he didn't waste time socializing. Anyway, Trapper John, this is Me Lay.

The real Trapper John? The one who threw you the famous pass and went to greater glory on the Boston and Maine Railroad?
The one and only.
Proud to know you, Trapper. Like to shake your hand if you'll hurry up and get that chest closed. You still working the trains?

Planes mostly. May take a crack at rickshaws. How does the direct approach work over here?
I been out of action since I got over here five months ago.

You don't go after the local scrunch?
I'm too busy, actually. Not for the Army, of course, but where I live. Dr. Yamachi's New Era Pediatric Hospital and Whorehouse. I'm serious. The guy has this crude hospital for kids and a whorehouse on the side to finance it, all in the same building.

What do you do in the joint besides pimp?
That's about the only thing I don't do that I'm built for. I inspect the girls and take care of some of the kids in the hospital. Sometimes I tend bar and act as bouncer.

What's the bastard really like?
Colonel Merrill is a veteran of twenty- five years in the Regular Army, a soldier first and a doctor second. A member of several patriotic organizations, he believes it's America's God-given mission to maintain a foothold for freedom on the Asian mainland.
That bad? But I guess you're right. We might as well see him. Got any caddie carts?

Never mind.
The address of the N.E.P.H. and W. Why don't you meet me there when you're through golf for drinks and dinner and whatever strikes the fancy?
Mine's already been struck, and it doesn't have to be very fancy.

Please! Face it, Colonel, you don't have us, we have you. Your boys blew this case, we bailed you out. We figure we ought to hang around a day to check the Congressman's kid, and we also figure to play some golf. So if that's okay with you, we got a deal.
And if it isn't, why don't we call Washington on your telephone? You tell your story, we'll tell ours.
When you make up your mind, get in touch. The golf club is probably the best place to leave a message.

Come on, Trapper. We got to forget golf for today.
I don't know why. As long as it's light enough to see your caddie.
What's the age of consent in this country?

Soup? Rice? What are we doing, beginning all over again?
No, we had a clear soup to start. This is a thick one and you ought to taste it. There's nothing like it back home.
How can I taste it now? We've already had like twelve courses.

Can you guys take one minute to look at a kid for me?
Now?

Why can't you look at him?
I have but well, you know, I've been mainly an anesthetist a long time now and... well, I'd like you guys to take a look at him.
What's the story?
Well, one of the girls got careless and two days ago she gave birth to an eight-pound American-Japanese male.
What's wrong with him?
Every time we feed him, it either comes right back up or he coughs and turns blue and has a hell of a time.

We don't have to see him. Call that halfassed Army hospital and tell them to be ready to put some lipiodol in this kid's esophagus and take X- rays.
But it's ten-thirty at night. We can't get military personnel out for a civilian. A foreign civilian.

Is he out?
Like the Rock of Gibraltar.

He's coming to.
Let's get his clothes off quick.

Chopper coming in, Colonel. Two of them, I'm afraid.
Damn.
And another one, but it's from the south. There.

This one goes right to the OR. Tell Duke to do him ahead of the busted spleen. And this kid can't wait. I'll take him myself, before I get to that ruptured diaphragm.
Captain... 'This kid' is a prisoner of war.
Yeah?
It's an American boy's rupture you're supposed to close.
Listen, we get a deluge like this, just deciding priorities on a medical basis is hard enough. So never mind the side issues.

Nice looking kid. Going to be okay?
He'll live if that's what you mean. But somebody better be around when he comes to and finds out there's nothing left between his legs.

Pulse, slow, very little pressure.
Look at that right eye.
Epidural hematoma?
I don't know what else. You've been that route a little, haven't you?
Not enough to be a pro.

What do I do with it Hawk? This is a little out of my line.
Didn't recognize you, Red. When you get the clamp all the way down, open it as wide as you can and see if you can close it on the artery.

Fifteenth straight day there've been six o'clock choppers. How long can a battle go on?
You got to relax, Henry. Since the deluge started, you been working in the OR and running the outfit, too.

Best thing you could do for all of us is grab some sack time.
Radar!

For you, Trapper.
Okay, but I'll need you to help. Duke, will you take that belly back there? The Australian?

It's in pretty deep.
Yeah, and he's lost a lot of blood. I'm afraid it's hit more that just the lung.

Christ, it's Ho-Jon!
Hiya, Ho-Jon. You got a piece of a shell in your chest, but we'll take it out as soon as you've had more blood. Hey, Radar!

If we squeeze him through, I'm going to get him into Androscoggin College.
How about squeezing him through into Dartmouth? If all he wants to do is catch lobsters, he can learn that here.
Dartmouth's too big and too expensive. If he's as good as I think he is, he can move into the big league later. But Androscoggin first.
We'll need room. The sixth rib goes.
Never mind the conversation. Do it, Dad.
You aspirate the blood from the chest cavity. Damn, there's more of it than I thought.
If we don't get that pint, he's in trouble.

I don't feel anything.
Oh, Jesus.

I can't feel it now either. The mother must have gone in.
I don't get it.
It was in the cava and the hole sealed itself off. I must have jiggled it just enough to turn it loose. I can't feel it in the heart or the right pulmonary artery. So it's in the left pulmonary artery.
What do we do?
We'll have to close this hole and make one on the other side.
Be kind of rough on him if there's no blood. Why don't we close up and sit on him a couple of days?
Sure, that's the right way... at John Hopkins or someplace. But how do we know there won't be even more of a jam-up a few days from now? Maybe we won't be able to get to him when we want to. Maybe the goddam thing'll erode the artery when nobody's looking. Our best shot is now.

A-negative. I've cross-matched it.
I though you said we didn't have a drop.
I found a doner.

How is he?
Nice.
Arterial silk.

Ease off on those tapes, and let's see how much it bleeds. How is he?
Nice.
Boys, we're home free.

When will he be able to write?
What's he got to write, for God's sake?
An application to Androscoggin College.

She had this shiny black hair piled up on her head, but later on she let it hang loose and I'll be damned if it didn't come all the way down to her ass.
I've always had a hankering for blonde pussy myself. My wife's hair is a wonderful golden yellow, and this time of year it gets even lighter.

I guess that's why you go for Hot Lips Houlihan.
You know damn well I nearly puke when I look at her. I don't even think she's a real blonde.
How can you say a thing like that about an officer in the United States Army?
I not only say it, I'll back it up twenty buck's worth.
You got yourself a bet, Georgia boy. You're a witness.

Okay, I'm a witness, but how do you prove who's right?
There's only one way.

It's five minutes into nurses' shower hour. Where are they?
They're coming.

Hey, Knocko, I got those pictures you promised to look at of my kids. You too, Wilma. It won't take a minute. You can see them too, if you want.
No, thank you. I'm not the slightest bit interested.

Gimme three.
At ease. Captain Pierce, you have a seriously wounded patient for whom you are responsible. Yet I find you in a poker game.
You betcher ass, Dad.
What?

Pierce! That soldier requires immediate attention. I'm a surgeon and I know.
You betcher ass, General.

I'm going to play poker until three a.m. or until the patient is ready for surgery. However, if you'd like to operate on him yourself right now, be my guest. I get the same dough whether I work or not.
I want to talk to you, Pierce.
There's nothing to talk about, General. You take the case yourself or join me at three o'clock. Either way you're liable to learn something.

Now, General, I'm going to sandbag you. Do you think we're ready to get out of this belly?
Obviously you don't think so, and I don't know why.
Well, Dad, we haven't found any holes in the large bowel. They've all been in the small bowel, but the smell is different. I caught a whiff of large bowel, but it ain't staring us in the face, right?
Right.
So if it ain't staring us in the face, it's got to be retroperitoneal. And that, along with the look of the wounds, makes me figure he's got a hole in his sigmoid colon that we won't find unless we look for it.

And there it is.
I'm impressed, Pierce. Naturally, the kind of job I have, I don't get much chance to keep up with what goes on in the OR.
Neither does Henry Blake. But I'll tell you what makes him the best C.O. you've got in any of your hospitals. He leaves all the medical decisions to the men who do the day- to-day work and understand what meatball surgery is.

It certainly isn't Henry's fault Hot Lips Houlihan doesn't like her name.
Or her figger.

Well, it's still pretty much in the talk stage.
We had a team at the 325th Evac last fall. I coached the boys myself.
I think I heard about that.
Now we're working out a schedule of the outfits we're going to play this year. We all chip into a pool and make bets.
Must be fun. But the point we want to make about Henry...
I'm sure we could find a date for your team. Why don't I take it up with Henry? Thanks for the drink, boys.

Where the hell we going to get us a football team?
All three of us played for our schools. And there are at least four other guys...

But he's got five times the man-power to draw on.
We can balance that by getting ourselves a ringer. Henry has to say he needs a neurosurgeon and put in a specific request for Dr. Oliver Harmon Jones.

Never heard of him.
Sure you have, only as 'Spearchucker' Jones.
The nigra boy with the Philadelphia Eagles?

He only lasted one season.
On account he got caught in the doctor draft. He was a surgical resident playing semi-pro ball weekends when the Eagles signed him.

How come nobody knows about him? And you do?
I worked with Spearchucker my first month over here, at the 72nd Evac in Taegu. Most of the colored guys know who he is but they're not talking because he asked them not to.

So what makes you think he'll play for us?
We'll cut him in on the bets we make. And still have enough profit to send Ho-Jon to college.
Might make kind of a social issue, not having any other Negro officer.
He can move in here with us.

Now wait a minute, Hawkeye. I come a long way, learning to put up with a couple of crazy Yankees, but...
Don't tell me about your problems, boy. Explain them to Ho-Jon.

If we had closer relations, there wouldn't be any misunderstandings. That's where a football game would help. Between your outfit and mine.
A football game?
Special Services in Tokyo are all for it. They say it's one of the main gimmicks we have to keep the American way of life going here in Asia.
But what about Major Houlihan?
You mean Hot Lips? Screw her.
N-n-no thanks, G-General.

If I can make a suggestion, Coach.
The way I run an organization, any man in it has the right to speak his mind.
In that case, here are ten basic plays. I think that's about all this bunch can handle.

Thank you, Spearchucker. I'll certainly take a look at these. Where the hell did you ever get that name?
I used to throw the javelin.

Listen, we look pretty lousy out there, right?
Well, for college players that have been out of training seven or eight years...
I'm thinking about how we can make more money. Suppose we bet only part of our dough and keep this big animal out of the game the whole first half and let them roll up some points. Then you could bet the rest of our bundle between the halves and get the General and his friends to give us some real odds.

It's a nice idea. I mean it has style.
It's the only way we can make enough to put Ho-Jon through Androscoggin.

Those two big guys were tackles on the Cleveland Browns, and the redhead played halfback with the Rams.
They can't do that to me!

The bastards outconned us.
I think we could still have a chance.
If you start the game instead of waiting, you mean?
No, let's stick to that strategy till we see whether you boys can do two things. The first is get that halfback out of the game. He had one year with the Rams before the Army got him, but he didn't play too often because he's one of those hot dogs.

What?
When he sees a little running room, he likes to make a show... you know, stutter steps and cross-overs and all that jazz. Also he never learned to button up when he gets hit, so if you two can get a good shot at him once, you can hurt him.

But we'd have to break his leg or something to keep him out of the game for good.
Not necessarily.

As long as there's a pile-up, we can do our bit to encourage his permanent withdrawal from the contest.
It's a technique Ugly John and I worked out in case something like this came up.

Look at the size of those two beasts.
I don't think I could hurt one of them with a sledgehammer.

Stop him! Stop that man!
Sure, you just blindfold him first and tie him to a stake.

Don't try to get it far down. Kick it up high so we can get there and surround that son-ofa-bitch.
Yeah, if I can.

Well, he's taken care of. Scratch one hot dog.
You really think we hurt him that bad?
Hell, no, all you did was knock the wind out of him. But he won't be playing any more football today.

The hell we won't! You bastards pulled something, I don't know what, but we've been beating you without him. Ane we'll go on beating you!
You willing to b-back that up with odds?
Damn right. Three to one, as much as you want to put up.

What's the matter?
We may be in trouble, I can't catch my breath. I've got the occupational disease of oversized ex-athletes.

We got to stop them right here.
And get ourselves another touchdown to win. I wish to hell we knew what they were plotting.

Radar!
All you have to do is ask. The quarterback is saying they'll run the old Statue of Liberty. Their left end will come across and take the ball out of his hand and try to get around our left end.

We got it, men... Ho-Jon's keep as Androscoggin... if there is such a place. And the big news is, the General wants a rematch.
I'll tell you my news. I'm retiring from football.

Me, too. Y'all just seen me play my last game.
Same here. You can retire my number.

Well, there's one big satisfaction.
What's that, Henry?
I out-coached that General Hammond.

Pain bad, Ho-Jon?
I wouldn't wish it on a maneating shark.

You must open me up again?
No, Ho-Jon, we're not going to open you up.

Henry's got our orders! We're going home!
When?
Any time. Whenever we want.
Be right with you.

You mind if we get out of this guy's brain first?
What's there to do? You found the sliver.
There might be another tiny piece we missed. I want to look around before we close up.
Perfectionist.

There's no transportation anyway this time of night.
We could steal one of the choppers.
I looked. Suspicious bastards got them all locked up.

Y'all mind the store.
Four goddam months. And they don't even give you time off for good behavior.

See you.
It's possible
Hang in there.

What for?
We need medical officers for short- arm inspection starting the first afternoon out.
Oh, certainly, Sergeant. My name is Captain George Limburger, and this is Captain Walter Camembert.
C-A-M-E-M...?
B-E-R-T, right. See you tomorrow.
Oh, I'm not sailing with you. I work out of the hospital here.

I thought we were heading for trouble putting on all these trinkets.
We got to start rehabilitating, Duke, if we want to be halfway human by the time we get back to our wives.
But no short-arm inspection. I'm with you there.
Screw it. We been earning our keep as respectable knife artists. Why should we do work any pill-rolling punk could handle?

Captain Camembert! Captain Camembert!
Excuse me, Sergeant.
Yes, Reverend?
What do you want with those two medical officers?
They're supposed to hold short-arm inspection.

Be the longest short-arm inspection you ever held!
Thanks, Reverend. Thank you both for tipping me off. You don't know a Captain Forrest or a Captain Pierce, do you?
They missed the boat.
Thanks.
Glad to help.

Hell, man, that don't matter. We're loaded. We were big wheels in the black market in Seoul.
Plus running the opium concession for the whole Eighth Army.

Let's hear from you, you goddam Yankee. Be nice to see you some time.
Like the Spearchucker said, that's possible. Anyway, it's been an interesting association.
<|endoftext|>
