Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in Corsica on August 15th, 1769. He had not been a healthy baby and his mother, Letizia, lavished him with care and devotion. In middle age, he would write about her from St. Helena.
My mother has always loved me. She would do anything for me.

His moods at this time were complex and varied.
Life is a burden for me. Nothing gives me any pleasure; I find only sadness in everything around me. It is very difficult because the ways of those with whom I live, and probably always shall live, are as different from mine as moonlight is from sunlight.

He made friends with a family called Columbier, and would later write of his first flirtation with their daughter, Caroline.
It will scarcely be considered credible, perhaps, but our whole business consisted in eating cherries together.

Good evening, sir.
Good evening, Mademoiselle.

The weather is terrible, isn't it, sir?
Yes, it is. It must be one of the worst nights we have had this winter.
Yes, it must be.

You must be chilled to the bone, standing out of doors like this.
Yes, I am, sir.
Then what brings you out on such a night?
Well, one must do something to live, you know -- and I have an elderly mother who depends on me.
Oh, I see... That must be a great burden.
One must take life as it comes -- do you live in Lyon, sir?
No, I'm only here on leave. My regiment is at Valence.
Are you staying with a friend, sir?
No... I have a... room... at the Hotel de Perrin.
Is it a nice warm room, sir?
Well, it must be a good deal warmer than it is here on the street.
Would you like to take me there, so that we can get warm, sir?
Uh-hh... yes, of course -- if you would like to go... there... but... I have very little money.
Do you have three francs, sir?

Br-rrr, these sheets are like ice.
Oh, I'm sorry about that.

What's your name?
Lisette.
Only Lisette?
Lisette La Croix.
That's a very nice name. Where are you from?
Please, sir, come into bed or I shall die of a chill.
Oh, yes... of course.

Good day to our brothers-in-arms. Have you come to join us?
I am looking for Monsieur George Varlac who resides in the Rue de Frelicot. Do you know him, monsieur?
Very well, Citizen Lieutenant. You have come to the right place, for I am Citizen Varlac.

A revolution is not a polite discussion in a parlor, Citizen Lieutenant. One does not call it murder to kill such vermin.
You may save your philosophy for the magistrate, Monsieur Varlac. I am only a simple officer in the army, and to me what you have done is called murder, and his always been called murder by honest men.
Then do you propose to arrest all of us, Citizen Lieutenant? For I was not there alone.
No, Monsieur Varlac, my warrant is only for you. Now, will you please come down at once. You will be taken back to Chalon for trial.

Citizen Lieutenant, my advice is to leave this town at once with your men. We do not wish to do harm to our brothers in uniform.
Monsieur Varlac, do not pretend to speak for these good people whom you have misled and inflamed with violent speech. Now, I order you to come down from the cart.

I suggest that you leave with your men while you can.
Monsieur Varlac, I will count slowly to five, and if you have not begun to get down from the cart by then, I will carry out your execution, on the spot.

Yes -- who spoke up?
I did, sir.

Yes, Captain? Have you anything you wish to say?
Yes, with all due respect, I do Citizen Barras.
Please...
May I come to the map?

Yes, sir?
A glass of champagne, please.
Yes, sir. I hope you will excuse me for asking, General Bonaparte, but are you Corsican?
Yes, I am.
I thought so, I noticed your name when you were announced. I'm Corsican too -- my name is Arena.
Oh -- where do you come from?
Bastia -- and you?
Ajaccio.
Have you been back recently?

I haven't been there for three years.
I haven't been back for ten years. Is your family still there?
No, they're living in Nice now.
That's a nice city. This is your first time here, isn't it?
Yes, as a matter of fact, it is.
You don't know many of Citizen Barras' friends, do you?
Ah-hh, no.
I thought not. I noticed you by yourself, all night.

Just a minute, General. Listen, don't let them fool you with all their grand la-de-da. They've all made their money from the war -- mostly from crooked war contracts. They say Citizen Barras has put away millions.
I see...

Ah, my dear friend, come in, come in. Please sit down.
I'm sorry, I was at the theater and I didn't receive your note until I returned to my hotel.
Thank you for coming. Would you care for a drink?
No, thank you.

I don't have to tell you of our latest difficulties.
Things are quite serious, I should say.
We expect an attack on the Convention tomorrow morning, at daybreak, and I have been placed in charge of its defense.
What do you have in mind?
To be perfectly honest, I haven't the vaguest idea.
Are you serious?
I don't even know whether a defense is possible.
What forces do you have at your disposal?
About 5,000 troops.
Cavalry?
The 21st Dragoons, about two or three-hundred troopers.
Any cannon?
There are none here.
Where are they?
Well, I believe there are at least 30 guns at Sablons.
You could have them here by daybreak.
Is this enough to oppose 40,000 men?
Properly arranged, yes.
These are odds of 8 to 1.
The numbers are not particularly relevant. You are not up against soldiers -- this is a mob, and they will run as soon as things become sufficiently unpleasant.
Would you be prepared to handle this for me?
Are you proposing to transfer command to me?
In every practical sense, yes, but, officially, of course, I would have to retain command.
Fair enough.
I must be honest with you. I first approached three generals more senior than yourself, and they all very prudently sent excuses.
I'm not insulted.
You realize what is at stake?
Our lives, the revolution, my career?
Look, let me be completely open with you, I have a carriage and an escort waiting for me, and I have a great deal of money outside of France. Unless we stand a very good chance of carrying this off, I am prepared to call it quits right now.

What did you say his name was?
Eugene de Beauharnais.
Is he alone?
Yes, sir.
Show him in.

Good morning, Citizen de Beauharnais.
Good morning, sir. Are you General Bonaparte?
I am, Citizen. Is your mother Madame Josephine de Beauharnais?
Yes, sir. Are you acquainted with her?
I have met her. What is your business with me?
I believe you issued an order that all citizens of Paris must hand over any weapons that they have in their possession.
That is correct.
This morning, a Lieutenant and three soldiers came to our house and asked if we had weapons. I explained we had only my late father's sword, which, in fact, was not a weapon but only a keepsake of memory.
A sword is a weapon whatever else you might wish to use it for.
I told the Lieutenant my late father was General Alexander de Beauharnais, and asked if there was any consideration that might be given to his memory.
And he sent you to me?
He said no one had the authority to rescind the order except you.
Does your mother know you have come?
No, sir.
Well, then, you have a lot of initiative, my young friend.
My father's sword means more to me than any other possession I have.
You realize, of course, that thousands of swords have been collected. How do you expect me to find yours?

Ah, how nice to meet you, General Bonaparte. One has read so much about you lately. Please sit down.
Thank you, Madame de Beauharnais. You probably don't recall but we met briefly a few months ago, at a party at Paul's house.
Oh... yes, of course! Have you met my daughter, Hortense?
Yes, we introduced ourselves at the door.
May I offer you a drink?
Oh, I don't want to put you to any inconvenience.
Oh, it's not the slightest inconvenience, General Bonaparte. It is an honor to have you here.
You are very kind, Madame de Beauharnais. Do you have some sherry, perhaps?
Yes, of course. Hortense, darling, will you tell Louise to bring some sherry?

I hope you will forgive me for barging in on you like this, Madame de Beauharnais. I called to bring this to your son, but I understand from your charming daughter that he is out for the afternoon.
Yes, I'm afraid he is. I believe he is riding. I know he'll be heartbroken to have missed you.
Well, I'm sure that you will be just as pleased to have this as he will be.

Oh... how very nice of you to bring that for Eugene... Did General de Beauharnais give it to you?
No, I'm afraid I never had the pleasure of meeting the General. This sword was taken several days ago from your son by some of my soldiers.
Oh, you must forgive me, General Bonaparte, I'm afraid you will think me incredibly stupid but I know absolutely nothing about this. Eugene is so independent -- he hardly tells me anything any more, and he has so many things in his room, I must confess I wasn't even aware that he had this sword -- you know how boys can be!

Napoleon would soon arouse the resentment of the Directory in Paris, exceeding his authority, making political decisions and treaties like a Roman Conqueror, enlarging his role to ruler of Italy. Only his tremendous success and ever increasing popularity prevented the Directory from replacing him.
From that moment on, I foresaw what I might be. Already I felt the earth flee beneath me, as if I were being carried away up to the sky.

I believe you are acquainted with my brother, Joseph Bonaparte, and my aide, Major Junot.
Yes, sir, I had the honor of meeting them on the trip from Paris.

Captain Charles, I believe you are one of General Le Clerc's aides-de- camp.
Yes, sir, I am.
Was it he who assigned you to command the escort which accompanied Madame Bonaparte's coach?
Yes, sir.

Was the trip normal in every respect?
Yes, sir.
Did any difficulties of any kind arise during the trip?
No, sir, none at all.

Then, you have my thanks, Captain Charles, for safely escorting Madame Bonaparte to Milan, and you may consider your assignment completed.
Thank you, sir.
You will return to Paris tomorrow and you will carry my compliments and thanks to General Le Clerc for assigning such an excellent officer to carry out a responsibility which has meant so much to myself and to Madame Bonaparte.
Thank you, sir. I will do that.
You may go, Captain Charles.

I would like both of you to read this. Please read it aloud.
To Citizen General Bonaparte from one who does not wish to see him dishonored by his wife. You should know, Citizen General, that your wife has taken a lover, one Captain Hippolyte Charles... undated and unsigned.

Naturally, one does not take much stock in such a piece of filth but, on the other hand, it is not the sort of thing one can simply ignore. What do you think, Joseph?
No...
Junot?

No, one cannot simply ignore it.
I am afraid, then, I have to ask you both, Joseph as my brother, and Junot as my good friend, whether or not you know anything about this, or whether you saw anything at all during the trip which might make you suspect some truth to it.

No... nothing at all.
Not even the slightest hint of something?
No -- Captain Charles commanded the cavalry escort, and rode outside the carriage. In the evenings, he always ate at another table. They hardly ever spoke to each other.
You would tell me, Joseph, wouldn't you?
Yes, of course, I would. You know I am not one of your wife's greatest admirers, but I certainly know nothing about this.
And you, Junot?

I believe you sent for me.
Yes, yes, please sit down. I will be with you in a moment.

Read it back.
To Joseph Bonaparte -- Dear Joseph, I have been informed by my wife of the cold and spiteful treatment she has been receiving at the hands of my family, since my departure. I am also informed that you have refused to pay over to her any of the money I left with you expressly for this purpose. Must you, too, take this opportunity during my absence to indulge the petty jealousies of the Bonaparte family?
Oh, shit, that's not right.

God damn it, Junot, wouldn't you think I have enough things on my mind not to waste time on a letter like this to Joseph?
There's probably some explanation.
Yes, I'm sure he's been too busy chasing his whores to be bothered about my wife.

Well, anyway, sorry to call you away from the festivities, but where is the breakdown on serviceable vehicles? I asked for it yesterday.
I gave it to Berthier... this afternoon.
Why did you give it to him?
I thought he would be seeing you before I would, and would give it to you.
Well, he didn't give it to me, and when I ask you to do something for me, return the work to me, not to Berthier.
I'm sorry, I thought he would give it to you.
I must have the breakdown now. Where is Berthier?
He's downstairs -- somewhere.
All right, thank you. Please ask him to come here.

Yes... but, first, can I say something to you, as a friend?
Certainly.
I know that I shouldn't butt into things... that are really no concern of mine... but you shouldn't write a letter like that to Joseph.
Why not?
Well, maybe he's only looking out for your best interests.
What are you talking about?
Nothing. That's all I can say.
That's all you can say? What are you talking about?
That's all I can say.
Now, just a minute. You have just very clearly implied that there is a reason why Joseph should not give my wife the money which I left for her. I can't possibly allow a remark like that to go without explanation.
Let's just say, he looks after your interests.

Look, Junot, you aren't going to leave this room until you explain yourself.
There are some things... better left unsaid.
You mean about my wife?! You mean there are some things better left unsaid about Josephine?!

What the hell is the matter with you?
I didn't want to hurt you... All I wanted to do was to keep from hurting you. I swear I didn't want to hurt you.
Well, whatever the hell you wanted to do, you are going to tell me everything right now. Do you understand?!
You know that... letter you showed me in Milan -- the one about Hippolyte Charles?
Yes.
I wrote it.
What?
Yes, I wrote it.
You wrote it.
I couldn't face telling you.
You couldn't face telling me what?
About Hippolyte Charles.
What was there to tell?
My God, what do you think?
Do you know what you're saying?
God help me -- yes.
How do you know?
I know.
How do you know?

I was in her maid's room at an inn we stopped at for the night, outside of Dijon. It was an adjoining room to Madame Bonaparte's.
Yes?

You could hear them?
Yes.

You mean you heard them making love?
Yes.

How did you know it was Captain Charles?
I questioned the maid, and she admitted Charles had been Madame Bonaparte's lover for several months.
Can you give me a drink, please?
Yes, of course. What do you want?

I wanted to kill him but Joseph convinced me it would be a mistake. He said people would say you hadn't the courage to deal with it yourself.
And was it so widely known that Joseph had reason for such concern?
I believe so. I believe Madame Bonaparte was not discreet, in Paris.

General Bonaparte?
Come back in an hour.
Excuse me, General Bonaparte, but I believe this is an extremely urgent matter, requiring your immediate attention.
Come in.

This dispatch has just arrived from Aboukir, marked highest priority, for General Bonaparte's eyes only.
Let me see it.

The important thing is to find the right lawyer. One who will not protract the thing indefinitely, in the courts.
You know I am only too happy to be of help to you, but surely this isn't the ideal moment to involve yourself in such matters.
I know of no better time.
You can't be serious. It would not be good to become another husband out of a Moliere farce.
The comedy of my marriage is sufficiently well known already.
You must not act impetuously.
It is time to clarify the situation. Everything is over between us.
But you can do the same thing in six months. The next few weeks may be the most important ones in your life.
My mind is made up. She will not set foot in my house again. I think if I saw her again, I might be tempted to strangle her.

Are you sure that you are not still in love with her?
Are you trying to insult me?
Of course not, but such violence of feeling makes me wonder.
Well, you shall see.
When is she supposed to return?
I have no idea. Her maid said she left two days ago, to meet me -- I can imagine where she is. But when she finally does come home, she will find her things in the street and my door locked.
She will probably appear with a dozen excuses and you will forgive her anyway.
My dear Joseph, the only thing that is clear is that my wife is a slut -- and while a man may want a slut for his mistress, he does not want her for his wife.

Were you in love with him?
I thought I was. I was confused.
And now?
Now, I know that I shall die if you leave me.
Do you expect me to believe that?
Yes.

And you, are you in love with any one else?
No.
But you have had mistresses while you were away.
Of course.
Were you in love with any of them?
No.
Were they pretty?
Yes.
Were any of them prettier than I am?
One had better legs.
Were any of them married?
Yes. They were the easiest. I made love to one of them within ten minutes of our first meeting.
She must have been in love with you.
Not in the least. After all, what is adultery -- only a brief transaction on a couch, requiring a few minutes of privacy.

Promise me you will never leave me.
I cannot promise you that.
Promise me.
I will never forgive you.
I don't care, but promise you will never leave me.
I don't understand you.
Promise.
Promises mean nothing.
Perhaps -- but tell me you promise, anyway.
All right -- I promise.
You are my old friend.

Come in.
Major Lavallette to see you, General.
Send him in.

Will you use the troops?
Only as a last resort. What are the Councils doing now?

Come in.
A message from Citizen Fouche.
Let me have it.

Come in.
Citizen Bourrienne to see you, sir.
Send him in.

On December 2, 1804, Napoleon was made Emperor of France. He would later say: "I found the crown lying in the gutter and I picked it up."
Duroc, I have a bill here for 600,000 francs from Tirot, for building the Imperial throne and six decorated arm-chairs. The amount is absurd -- and, at least twice too much.

Yes -- what is it?
Open the door. It's me.
Go away -- I'm busy.
I know what you're doing in there.
Don't be ridiculous and go away -- I'm busy working.
Where is Madame Trillaud?
How should I know. Ask Roquier -- he's cleaning her dress.
What are you doing in there?
Oh -- now, this is absolutely ridiculous! If you don't want to be humiliated in front of your guests, you will return to the table at once.
Will you be joining us, soon?
I will be there in five minutes. Go back to your guests.
Five minutes.
Yes!!
Five minutes.
Goodbye.

Separate bedrooms?
Yes.
But you will not... be safe...
Not be safe? What on earth are you talking about?
In case of a... surprise attack... at night... I am such a... light sleeper... I could wake you... I could scream.

Who is it?
It's me.

I didn't mean the things that I said... I was angry and I said more than I meant to.
Oh, my darling. I'm sorry, too. I won't do that again -- whatever you do. I won't cause you any more embarrassment, I promise.

Oh -- I didn't tell you... I've seen Dr. Corvisart, and he was very reassuring and encouraging. He has had excellent results with the waters of Plombiers, and he thinks it would be a good idea for me to spend a few weeks there. Apparently, he sent Madame Le Floch there last year, and she gave birth to twins.
Indeed -- well, you may tell Dr. Corvisart, I should be entirely satisfied with half her success.

Ah, my dear Francis, what a genuine pleasure it is to meet you at last.
I fear our meeting is long overdue... Napoleon.
I'm sorry that I am unable to offer you better hospitality, but this is the only place I have inhabited for the past month.
You have made such excellent use of it; I should think you will hate to leave it.
Shall we move closer to the fire?
Yes -- an excellent idea.

Will Alexander be joining us soon?
I very much doubt that he will.
Oh...?
I'm afraid he has been rather upset by the outcome of the battle.
I see.

But he asked me to say... on his behalf... that your achievements have increased his... admiration for you, and that he believes... your success is predestined by heaven... and that his army...
My dear Francis, you do seem extremely uncomfortable.
I'm afraid I am, just a bit.
Would you like some brandy?
Thank you.
I'll have the fire built up.

Thank you, Napoleon.
Francis, may I ask whether you wear warm winter underwear?

No -- not as a rule.
Ah, well, that is the first rule of warfare. You must wear long-sleeved and long-legged underwear. You can never conjure up brilliancies with a cold bottom.

Led by the warlike Queen Louisa, and her fashion-minded husband, King Frederich Wilhelm, the Prussians still believed themselves cast in the mold of Frederick the Great, and more than a match for Napoleon. The King had a special collection of 60 splendid uniforms, and was personally involved in the design of all the Prussian army uniforms.
If the French army had been commanded at Jena and Auerstadt by a tailor, the King of Prussia would certainly have gained the day.

And, what a great pleasure it is, indeed, to meet you, Alexander.
And, what a delightful idea!
Ah -- you approve?
I think it's absolutely charming.
I'm glad you like it.
Whatever suggested the idea to you?
I shall tell you in the strictest confidence -- when I was a boy, I had a passion for rafts, and never had the opportunity to build one.

You can always tell at a glance whether retreating infantry are being pursed by cavalry, because they hurry along and keep turning around and looking back. When they are retreating before infantry, they merely trudge along, head down.
Fascinating! Tell me, leaving aside the question of grand strategy, for the moment, what would you say is the single most difficult tactical skill to master?
Without a doubt, to estimate the enemy's strength on the battlefield. This is something that is only acquired by experience and instinct. At Jena, there were as many opinions about strength of the enemy as there were generals present. Murat said there were 50,000, preparing to attack. Berthier said there were no more than 25,000, about to withdraw. "Berthier sees only what is in the open," Murat said. "But don't forget there is a second force hidden in the forest." And so it would always go, each of them would judge things according to his own ability, character and state of mind, at the moment.
Ah, my dear Napoleon, sometimes I feel that I am not really an Emperor as you are.
What do you mean?
I know absolutely nothing of war -- and I am still totally dependent upon my generals.

Article 46, calls for the virtual dismemberment of Prussia, reducing her population by half and her army to a token force.
Does she deserve anything better?
Those are extremely harsh terms.
I did not ask her to go to war against me.
Has Alexander agreed to this?
Yes, he has.

Now, the section headed "Secret Clauses of the Treaty" -- Article 14b, provides for Alexander to serve as mediator between France and England and, if he fails to achieve a preliminary agreement within four months, it further provides that Russia is to go to war against England, and close her ports to English trade.
That is correct.
Do you think Alexander has any chance to succeed as a mediator?
I very seriously doubt it. I don't think there is any possibility of making peace with England so long as she sees herself safe from invasion. That is why we must increase the pressure on her economy. With Russia in the Continental Blockade, England must collapse. More than 40% of her trade is with the Continent and Russia.
England can make no move against you on the Continent without Austria. A reliable treaty with Austria would end her hopes in that regard.
We have a treaty with Austria.
Not one I should like to rely on. Francis is still smarting under the terms he had to accept after Austerlitz, and he is under great pressure to recover his losses.
My dear Talleyrand, none of the Kings of Europe bear any friendship for France. It is easy for you to talk of reliable treaties. The only treaties you have been able to negotiate are the ones I have won on the battlefield.
What I am talking about is moderation.
What you are talking about is a gamble on moderation -- when I gamble, I prefer to gamble on force.
And where do you place Alexander?
Alexander and I are friends. We have reached an understanding.
I hope that understanding is worth as much as you think it is, sire. My impression of Alexander is that he is moody and impressionable, capable of acting on sudden impulses which then lead to sudden embarrassments. He is an unpredictable mixture of idealism and vanity. You have dazzled him, and you have performed a diplomatic miracle, but Alexander is weak and he is easily influenced by the last one who has his ear.
That is a matter of opinion.
Sire, you have only enemies in the court of St. Petersburg, and I fear outside your influence, Alexander will have another look at what he has agreed to.
He will stand by his agreement -- I know him better than you do.

Good heavens, Ambassador -- what has happened?
Ah, good evening, my dear Duroc. I'm afraid I've been out hunting and I have had a rather bad fall.
Indeed you have, Ambassador. Have you sent for a doctor?
Yes, I have, and I hope you will forgive me, Duroc, but unless your visit is extremely urgent, I shall have to ask you to excuse me until tomorrow.
I beg your indulgence, Ambassador, but it is.
Oh?

The Emperor has decided to marry your Archduchess, Marie-Louise.
What is that?
Earlier this afternoon, the Emperor refused the hand of the Grand Duchess Anna, of Russia, and, as I'm sure you can appreciate, he is quite able to change his mind again. For the Emperor, to choose a wife, is only a matter of minutes.
But this is not a matter which can be settled tonight, surely?
No one can say how the Emperor's thoughts work, Ambassador, and unless we move quickly, he might change his mind again.
But, my dear Duroc, how can I act without guidance from Vienna? I haven't the slightest idea of how the Emperor Francis might feel about this.
May I suggest that we can prepare and sign the agreement, between ourselves, subject to the approval of the two Emperors. Believe me, my dear friend, your Archduchess, Marie-Louis, may very well hold, in her hands, the future of our two countries.

Good evening, ladies. You must forgive me, my dearest wife, but I simply could not wait to see you.
Oh, then you are...
Yes, my dearest Marie-Louise, I am your husband.

And, where did you see my portrait?
Ah, you must forgive me, my dearest Marie-Louise, I saw it during one of my stays at your palace -- at Schonbrunn.

And, you, my dear wife, do you find that I resemble my portraits?
You are much younger, and much more handsome, than your pictures.

Do you like music?
Yes, I do -- very much.
Will I be able to play the harp? It is an instrument of which I am very fond.
Of course, my dear.
You are so good to me. Will you also allow me to have a botanical garden?
You may have anything you wish, my sweet and lovely Marie-Louise.
I am told that Fontainebleau has many lovely views. I know nothing more interesting than a lovely countryside.
I am sure you will enjoy the French countryside.
I hope you have patience with me. I do not know how to dance the quadrille but, if you desire it, I will learn.
I only desire what gives you pleasure, my dearest.
Will it be possible to have my dog, Bijou, sent here? I was not allowed to bring her and I love her so much.
Of course, my dear -- how cruel to have been separated from her. And how strange it must be for you to be here, away from your family and everything you know.
Oh, no, I am very happy. But you must have patience with me... I know nothing at all of what a wife must know. And I know nothing about men. My papa has never allowed me even to have a pet of the male gender.
Did the Emperor or Empress give you any... instructions of any kind... before you left?
Papa said only to comply with any request you might make of me.
Oh, my dearest child -- you must not worry about anything. I will teach you everything that you must know.

Do you know the joke about the two Swiss boys who go to a bordello for the first time?
No.
Well, two nice little Swiss boys, who are virgins, decide they will save up their money and go to a bordello.

Ah, my dear Madame de Montesquiou, you have no idea what happiness it brings me to see this child, at last. I was told the very idea of such a visit would too much distress the Empress.
I am delighted to be of service to you again, Your Highness. And I can tell you, my instructions came directly from the Emperor, with a caution to be discreet.
Oh... I see. I understand. How is... the Emperor?
I rarely see him, Your Highness, but I believe he is in excellent health, and he is very happy with the child.
Ah, that is good.
And, you seem in excellent health, Your Highness.
Ah, well, my dear Madame de Montesquiou, peace of mind can eventually be a substitute for happiness.

Good day, monsieur. Do you think it is possible for you to tell your driver to stop ringing that bell?
My regrets, my dear Major, but I believe you have been blocking the road.
Are you trying to provoke me, monsieur?
No, Major, I merely wish to state that your vehicle appears to be somewhat slower and heavier than mine, and point out that, if you would be kind enough to pull over to one side of the road, I could pass you and be on my way.
May I inform you, monsieur, that I am Major Fidon, official courier to the court of the Emperor Napoleon, on my way to our Embassy at St. Petersburg and, in accordance with the rules of the road, no one may overtake or pass me.
Before you quote the rules of the road to me, Major, may I point out to you that you are not in France now, but that you are a guest in Russia.
If I have given you any cause to be insulted, monsieur, may I offer you immediate satisfaction?
If you wish to put things on that basis, then I will say good day to you, monsieur.

It is a thing entirely unknown in diplomacy, that one government should assume a right to dictate to another, who is upon terms of equality, the conditions on which she should conduct her commerce; and, assuming such a right, second it by threatening language, in case of non-compliance.
But, Your Majesty, the very substance of the Tilsit treaty was that you should join the Continental Blockade, boycott English goods, suspend all commercial dealings with her, and be France's ally. Nothing more is being asked than to comply with the treaty.
My dear Caulaincourt, agreements can endure only when they allow both sides to live. Napoleon may believe it is necessary to injure England but, before that, he must realize it is necessary for him to allow his friends to live. He cannot expect me to tell my nobles they must ruin themselves so that he can bring England to her knees -- and I'm afraid that is what it has come to.
I can appreciate what Your Majesty is saying but the Emperor has staked everything on this policy. He has no other way to attack England, and no one knows more than Your Majesty how his overtures for peace have been rejected.
It's a fine thing to establish policies but, when they don't work, they must be reconsidered. Granted that you have hurt England, but she is still on her feet. And to seal off her trade with Europe, what has it cost you? You have had to rule with an iron hand. You have turned friends into enemies. And even at that, the result has only been partly effective. You have never been able to stop the extensive cheating, smuggling and corruption -- even of your own officials. But I should think the situation in Spain, alone, would give your policy a minus balance. You have had to commit a quarter of a million of your best troops against the guerrillas, with no victory in sight. And you have given England a dangerous foothold on the Continent, for her armies.
I am in no position to debate this with you, Your Majesty, but can you imagine what a blow it will be to the Emperor if you should now desert his cause? It would mean nothing less than victory for England.
My dear Caulaincourt, you have no idea of how compromised my own position has become since Tilsit. I am blamed by the army for the military disaster at Austerlitz and Friedland, by the nobility for ruining their trade with England, by the merchants who must accept French foods at unprofitable prices, and by the nation for allowing Napoleon to dictate Russian policy.

Your Majesty knows my affection for him is deep and genuine, and goes far beyond my official role as Ambassador. But I would be remiss in my feelings for you, and in my responsibility to the Emperor, if I did not say that it is entirely possible that the Emperor will view your refutation of the terms of the Treaty of Tilsit, as the first step in the exchange of a French alliance for an English one -- with all the dangers that might entail.
I have given a great deal of thought to that possibility, and I am prepared to face it. If it should come to war, and I presume that is what you are alluding to, I would rather have war with the Emperor than my own people.

I know Alexander. His imagination must be struck by some great, bold, powerful stroke, and he will come back to me, just as he did at Friedland.
With his army of 400,000 men in concealed bivouacs, on a ten mile front, in the forests, bordering the banks of the Vistula river, Napoleon conducted a last minute personal reconnaissance, disguised in the uniform of a Polish lancer.

My God...! What time is it?
Four o'clock.
My God, what a fire!

When did it start?
The first reports came in at about ten.
Why didn't you wake me then?
At first, it hardly seemed more than a routine fire.
How did it spread so quickly?
It is the work of incendiaries.
I told Mortier that he would answer with his life for any looting.
Our troops have no part in this. It has been started by the Russians!
Impossible, I don't believe it.
We have already captured a dozen incendiaries, convicts, released just two days ago. They said they were acting under orders of the secret police.
But to start a fire like this in five hours -- how is it possible? It would take a carefully organized plan, tons of combustibles and hundreds of people.
From what we can tell, there are hundreds of agents, all over the city. The combustibles seem to have been carefully placed beforehand, and all the fire-engines have been removed from the city.
My God -- this could be very bad for us... very bad, indeed.

I hope you will forgive me, Your Majesty, for requesting an audience at such a late hour, but I have traveled all the way from Moscow to see you, on a matter which cannot wait.
Very well, General, what is it you wish to say?
Your Majesty, I have been advised that you have received a letter from Napoleon, offering a peace treaty, and that you have decided to accept it.
I have decided to accept the principle of a negotiation; the terms are not established.
If I may, Your Majesty, I would like to offer a dissenting opinion.
General Kutusov, feel free to say whatever you like.
I believe I am right in saying that, before the fire, the country had grown weary of the war, and there were few who were interested in continuing the battle.
Proceed.
But, since the fire, a completely new spirit has been aroused in the nation. The French have become an army of criminals, against whom Russia must be avenged, against whom she is now prepared to fight to the death.
You know, General Kutusov, there is a very strong possibility that the fire was not started by Napoleon's troops but was organized under the orders of Rostopchin's secret police.
I have heard that story but I do not believe it.
Rostopchin is a fanatic and he is capable of anything -- however, it doesn't affect what we are talking about. Please go on.
The point I was trying to make is that I think it is reasonable to say that Your Majesty would not find himself under unbearable pressure, if he decided to make peace with the Emperor, at least at this time.
For the sake of your argument, let us say that is correct.
Well, has Your Majesty considered what Napoleon's alternatives might be, if you simply chose to ignore his note?
Yes, General Kutusov, I daresay that this has been considered and discussed at great length. Napoleon would simply spend the winter in Moscow and continue the campaign in the spring. Another lesser possibility might be to march on St. Petersburg now, although there is some doubt that he has the strength to do this, until he refits his army.
You have my absolute assurance, Your Majesty, that Napoleon does not have the strength to attack St. Petersburg now -- his army is exhausted and ill-supplied, and he would be defeated if he attempted that.
I will accept your assurance, but I'm afraid I don't see your point.
Forgive me, Your Majesty, I am about to make it.
Ah, yes -- proceed.
The point is that I don't think Napoleon will sit in Moscow until the spring! I don't think he can afford to.

Well, that is a very interesting idea, General Kutusov, but I can assure you that Napoleon is no beginner at this. Whatever analysis you have done on this situation, I am sure that he has gone over the same ground.
I have no doubt that he has, Your Majesty, but does he have any strong moves from which to choose?
Well, one thing immediately comes to mind, if what you are saying is true -- he would merely withdraw his army from Moscow and return to Poland for the winter.
Your Majesty has grasped the outlines of his problem in much less time than it took me. This is a crucial point -- and it is a political one, which Your Majesty will be in a far better position to answer than I. Can Napoleon afford to abandon Moscow without signing even the preliminaries of a peace treaty with you?
I must confess he would look a bit silly, fighting his way to Moscow and turning right around again.
Perhaps it would be even more serious than that, Your Majesty. His European confederation is held together by some very slender threads. Your Majesty knows even better than I that Austria and Prussia are very doubtful allies, and the Emperor has reason enough to fear that they will turn on him, at the first sign of weakness.
Proceed.
If I can presume to go into the Emperor's mind, I believe that he has based his entire campaign strategy on obtaining a peace treaty after the fall of Moscow. When Vienna fell, there was a peace treaty. When Berlin fell, another treaty. That has always been the rules of the game. But what is he to do now if no treaty is forth- coming? He knows that beyond Moscow, there is nothing, and that, if he withdraws, there remains only a fall into emptiness.

What do you think Napoleon will do?
I, personally, am convinced that he will withdraw his army from Moscow, and attempt to establish himself in Poland for the winter. In the end, he will not allow himself to be cut off from Paris. But I believe that if he is offered any encouragement, by Your Majesty, he will postpone this decision as long as possible. He is a gambler and he will trust to his luck.

If he withdraws his army in good order, it will be a serious political defeat. But, if he should be caught on the move, with his army, in the full grip of winter, then it will be a catastrophe. If Your Majesty can prolong his hopes for a treaty by silence, be deceit, by any means, for another month, thus postponing his departure, then the graves of his army are already dug in the soil of Russia.
General Kutusov, I would like to call a meeting of my cabinet tomorrow morning and have you present this idea to them. I think it has merit and is worthy of consideration.
I am at your disposal, Your Majesty.

Hello there, Picart.
Ah, Didier -- you are alive.
Why are you carrying the dog?
His paws are frozen and he cannot walk.
When you eat him, may I have some?
My God -- don't you recognize Mouton -- our regimental dog? I would rather eat Cossack.

On January 1st, 1814, France itself was invaded. Now, with a small army of raw recruits, Napoleon would have to face the powerful combination of England, Russia, Prussia and Austria, operating against him together, for the first time. The balance of numbers had tilted irretrievably against him.
A year ago, the whole of Europe was marching alongside of us. Today, the whole of Europe is marching against us.

Well, Belliard, what's this? What are you doing here? Where is the enemy?
They are at the gates of Paris, sire.
And where is the army?
It is on this road, sire, following me.
And who is defending Paris?
Paris is evacuated, sire. The enemy is to enter at nine o'clock tomorrow morning. The National Guard is on duty at the gates.
Paris has surrendered?! I don't believe it.
Unhappily, it is true, sire.
But where are my wife and son? What's become of them? Where is Marmont? Where is Mortier?
The Empress, your son and the whole court left two days ago for Rambouillet. Marshals Mortier and Marmont are probably still in Paris, completing the arrangements.

But, sire, Your Majesty would lay Paris open to being sacked. The enemy is outside the gates with more than 120,000 men. Besides this, I left the city under the terms of a treaty and I am forbidden to reenter Paris.
A treaty? Don't be ridiculous. What treaty is this? Who made it? Who has been giving orders?
I don't know the details of the treaty, sire, Marshal Mortier sent me word of its having been agreed to, and he said that I was to take the army and make for Fontainebleau.
But who made this treaty?
I believe it was arranged by Marshals Mortier and Marmont. I must explain to you that we have had no orders all day. Each marshal has been keeping his own position.
Who sent my wife and son out of Paris?
I don't know, sire.
And where is Joseph?
I don't know what has happened to Prince Joseph.
What cowardice! What treason! Joseph has ruined everything. How could they all lose their heads. They knew I was coming up fast. Victory was just within grasp. Come, come, turn your troops around, General Belliard.

Josephine dead -- how unbelievable! How impossible it is to believe it. She was always physically so strong -- she was never ill a day in her life.
It is a terrible shock.

But did she have the best doctors? Wasn't there any chance at all to save her?
I don't know, sire -- she had the Tsar's personal physician.
She should have had Larrey or Corvisart. They might have saved her... But why didn't anyone even write to me? Can you believe that no one even bothered to write to me? Would you have believed that I should read such news in a newspaper? How incredible!
That is incredible.
Ah, my poor Josephine. She was the most alluring, most glamorous creature I have ever known -- a woman in every sense of the word, and she had the kindest heart in the world. She may have been a liar and a spendthrift, but she had something that was irresistible -- she was a women to her very fingertips... How impossible it is to believe that she is dead.
I have never heard an unkind word about her spoken.
I suppose I might blame her for opening her house to the men most responsible to my downfall, but how can I? She was on her own again, she had to look after her own affairs, and how can one blame her for having her head turned by the attention of Kings?

Who is there?
Bertrand, sire.
I have just had the most vivid... dream... about Josephine.
Yes, sire?
She was sitting there... and it was as if I had last seen her only the night before... She hadn't changed -- she was still the same -- still completely devoted to me... and she told me we were going to see each other again and, never again, leave each other... She has promised me. Did you see her?
No, sire... I was asleep.
I wanted to kiss her, but she didn't want to kiss me... She slipped away, the moment I wanted to take her in my arms.
<|endoftext|>
