I think it would be rather exciting to meet a pirate.
Think again, Miss Swann. Vile and dissolute creatures, the lot of them. I intend to see to it that any man who sails under a pirate flag, or wears a pirate brand, gets what he deserves: a short drop and a sudden stop.

Captain Norrington... I appreciate your fervor, but I am concerned about the effect this subject will have on my daughter.
My apologies, Governor.

Actually, I find it all fascinating.
And that's what concerns me. Elizabeth, we will be landing in Port Royal soon, and beginning our new lives. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we comport ourselves as befits our class and station?
Yes, father.

Man overboard!
Boy overboard!
Fetch a hook -- haul him out of there!

He's still breathing.
Where did he come from?

What happened here?
An explosion in the powder magazine. Merchant vessels run heavily armed.

Did he speak?
His name is Will Turner -- that's all I found out.
Very good.

Elizabeth? Is everything all right? Are you decent?
Yes -- yes.

It's -- beautiful. May I inquire as to the occasion?
Is an occasion necessary for a father to dote upon his daughter with gifts?

Although ... I did think you could wear it to the ceremony today.
Ceremony?
Captain Norrington's promotion ceremony.

I knew it.
Or, rather, Commodore Norrington ... a fine gentleman, don't you think? He fancies you, you know.

Difficult ... to say.
I'm told that dress is the very latest fashion in London.
Women in London must have learned to not breathe.

Elizabeth, this is hardly appropriate --
About the day we met. Do you remember?

I could never forget it, Miss Swann.
Will, how many times must I ask you to call me 'Elizabeth'?
At least once more, Miss Swann. As always.

This dock is off-limits to civilians.
Sorry, I didn't know.

Some sort of to-do up at the fort, eh? You two weren't invited?
No ... somone has to make sure this dock stays off-limits to civilians.
This must be some important boat.

That's a fine goal, I'm sure ... But it seems to me a ship like that -- -- makes this one here just a wee superflous.
Oh, the Dauntless is the power in these waters, true enough -- but there's no ship that can match the Interceptor for speed.
That so? I've heard of one, supposed to be fast, neigh uncatchable ... the Black Pearl?

There's no *real* ship as can match the Interceptor.
The Black Pearl is a real ship.
No, it's not.
Yes it is. I've seen it.
You've seen it?
Yes.
You've seen the Black Pearl?
Yes.
You haven't seen it.
Yes, I have.
You've seen a ship with black sails that's crewed by the damned and captained by a man so evil that hell itself spat him back out?
... No.
No.
But I've seen a ship with black sails.
Oh, and no ship that's not crewed by the damned and captained by a man so evil that hell itself spat him back out could possibly have black sails and therefore couldn't possibly be any ship other than the Black Pearl. Is that what you're saying?
... no.
Like I said, there's no real ship as can match -- Hey!

What's your name?
Smith.

What's your business in Port Royal, 'Mr. Smith'?
And no lies!

None? Very well. You rumbled me. I confess: I intend to commandeer one of these ships, pick up a crew in Tortuga, and go on the account, do a little honest pirating.
I said, no lies.

I think he's telling the truth.
He's not telling the truth.
He may be.
If he were telling truth he wouldn't have told us.

I apologize if I seem forward -- but I must speak my mind. This promotion confirms that I have accomplished the goals I set for myself in my career. But it also casts into sharp relief that which I have not achieved. The thing all men most require: a marriage to a fine woman. You have become a fine woman, Elizabeth.
I can't breathe.
I'm a bit nervous, myself --

Well, well... Jack Sparrow, isn't it?
Captain Jack Sparrow. If you please.

Taking stock: you've got a pistol with only one shot, a compass that doesn't point north ... and no ship. You are without a doubt the worst pirate I have ever heard of.
Ah, but you have heard of me.

Commodore, I must protest. Pirate or not, this man saved my life.
One good deed is not enough to redeem a man of a lifetime of wickedness.

But it seems to be enough to condemn him.
Indeed.

Miss Swann.
Miss Swann, if you'll be so kind?

You are despicable.
I saved your life; now you've saved mine. We're square.

On his heels! Gillette, bring a squad down from the fort! Elizabeth, are you --
Yes, I'm all right, I'm fine! Go capture him.

You look familiar ... Have I ever threatened you before?
I've made a point of avoiding familiarity with pirates.
Ah. Then it would be a shame to put a black mark on your record. So if you'll excuse me ...

Do you think this is wise, boy? Crossing blades with a pirate?
You threatened Miss Swann.
Only a little.

Who makes all these?
I do. And I practice with them. At least three hours a day.
You need to find yourself a girl. Or maybe the reason you practice three hours a day is you've found one -- but can't get her?

You cheated.
Pirate.

Move away.
No.
Move!
No. I can not just step aside and let you escape.

Has my daughter given you an answer yet?
No. She hasn't.
Well, she had a very taxing day... Ghastly weather tonight.
Bleak. Very bleak.

What?
Parlay! I invoke the right of parlay! According to the Code of the Brethern, set down by the pirates Morgan and Bartholomew, you must take me to your Captain!
I know the code.
If an adversary demands parlay, you can do them no harm until the parlay is complete.
It would appear, so do you.

My apologies, miss. As you were saying, before you were so rudely interrupted?
Captain Barbossa ... I have come to negotiate the cessation of hostilities against Port Royal.

There was a lot of long words in there, miss, and we're not but humble pirates. What is it you want?
I want you to leave. And never come back.

I am disinclined to acquiesce to your request. Means 'No.'
Very well.

I'll drop it!
My holds are bursting with swag. That bit of shine matters to me ... Why?
Because it's what you're searching for. You've been searching for it for years. I recognize this ship. I saw it eight years ago, when we made the crossing from England.
Did you, now?

You have a name, missy?
Elizabeth -- Turner. I'm a maid in the governor's household.

You've got sand, for a maid.
Thank you, sir.
And how does a maid come to own a trinket such as that? A family heirloom, perhaps?
Of course. I didn't steal it, if that's what you mean.
No, no, nothing like that. Very well. You hand that over, we'll put your town to our rudder and ne'er return.
Can I trust you?
It's you who invoked the parlay! Believe me, Miss, you'd best hand it over, now ... or these be the last friendly words you'll hear!

That Jack Sparrow ... he talked about the Black Pearl.
Mentioned it, is more what he did.
Still --

Are you familiar with that ship? The Black Pearl?
Somewhat.
Where does it make berth?
Surely you've heard the stories? The Black Pearl sails from the dreaded Isla de Mureta ... an island that cannot be found -- except by those who already know where it is.
The ship's real enough. So its anchorage must be a real place. Where is it?
Why ask me?
Because you're a pirate.
And you want to turn pirate yourself?
Never. They took Miss Swann.
So it is that you found a girl. Well, if you're intending to brave all and hasten to her rescue and so win fair lady's heart, you'll have to do it alone. I see no profit in it for me.

I can get you out of here.
How? The key's run off.
I helped build these cells. Those are hook-and-ring hinges. The proper application of strength, the door'll lift free. Just calls for the right lever and fulcrum ...

Agreed.
Agreed!

Not without my effects.
We need to go!

Why are brothering with that?
My business, Will. As for your business -- one question, or there's no use going. This girl -- what does she mean to you? How far are you willing to go to save her?
I'd die for her.
Good.

Come aboard.
I haven't set foot off dry land since I was twelve, when the ship I was on exploded. It's been a sound policy.
No worries there. She's far more likely to rot out from under us.

We're going to steal a ship? That ship?
Commandeer. We're going to commandeer a ship. Nautical term.
It's still against the law.
So's breaking a man out of jail. Face it, Will: you may say you'll never be a pirate, but you're off to a rip-roaring start. My advice -- smile and enjoy it.

This is either crazy, or brilliant.
Remarkable how often those two traits coincide.

Everybody stay calm. We're taking over the ship!
Aye! Avast!

Dead serious.
You understand this ship cannot be crewed by only two men. You'll never make it out of the bay.
We'll see about that.

Sir, I'll not see any of my men killed or wounded in this foolish enterprise.
Fine by me. We brought you a nice little boat, so you can all get back to shore, safe and sound.
Agreed. You have the momentary advantage, sir. But I will see you smile from the yard arm, sir.
As likely as not. Will, short up the anchor, we've got ourselves a ship!

Commodore --
A moment.
But --
Please.
Dammit, man, it appears someone is stealing your ship!

Raise the sails.
The wind is quarter from astern ... by the time we're underway, we'll never catch them.
We need only to come about, to put them in range of the long nines.

Hands! Come about! Jackets off the cannons! We are to fire on our own ship?
Better to see it at the bottom of the sea than in the hands of a pirate.

You'll be dining with the Captain, and he requests you wear this.
Tell the captain that I am disinclined to acquiesce to his request.
He said you say that! He also said if that be the case, you'll be dining with the crew, and you'll be naked.

Maid or not, it fits you.
Dare I ask the fate of it previous owner?
Now, none of that. Please dig in.

Oh, there would be no sense in killing you, Miss Turner.
Then why aren't you eating?
Would that I could.

Do you not know what this is, then?
It's a pirate medallion.
It's a piece of the treasure of Isla de Muerta.

For a man whose made an industry of avoiding boats, you're a quick study.
I worked passage from England as a cabin boy. After my mother passed, I came out here ... looking for my father.
Is that so?
My father. William Turner?

I knew him. Probably one of the few he knew him as William Turner. Most everyone just called him Bill, or 'Bootstrap' Bill.
'Bootstrap?'
Good man. Good pirate. And clever -- I never met anyone with as clever a mind and hands as him. When you were puzzling out that cell door, it was like seeing his twin.
That's not true.
I swear, you look just like him.
It's not true my father was a pirate.
Figured you wouldn't want to hear it.
He was a merchant marine! He was a respectable man who obeyed the law, and followed the rules--
You think your father is the only man who ever lived the Glasgow life, telling folk one thing, and then going off to do another? There's quite a few who come here, hoping to amass enough swag to ease the burdens of respectable life. And they're all 'merchant marines.'
My father did not think of my mother -- his family -- as a burden.
Sure -- because he could always go pirating.
My father -- was not -- a pirate!

Put it away, Will. It's not worth getting beat again.
You didn't beat me. You ignored the rule of engagement. In a fair fight, I'd kill you.
Then that's not much incentive for me to fight fair, is it?

Tortuga?
Oh -- did I forget to mention that?

Just do it quickly.
Don't worry. I've already got a Quartermaster -- there!

You stole my boat.
AnaMaria! Have you seen Gibbs? I need to put together --

My dory. The Jolly Mon. Where is it?
Safe! At Port Royal. With the Royal Navy.
That boat is my livelihood!
You'll get it back. Or one better.
I will.

Curse you for breathing, you slack- jawed idiot. Mother's love, Jack, you know better than to wake a man when he's sleeping. It's bad luck!
Well, fortunately, I know how to counter it. The man who did the waking buys the man who was sleeping a drink, and the man who was sleeping it drinks it while listening to a proposition.
Aye, that'll about do it.

Blast it, I'm already awake!
I know. That was for the smell.

Make it last, then. Now, what's the nature of this venture of yours?
First -- have you found me a crew?
Oh, there's a hard tale, Jack. Most of the decent pirates in town won't sail with you -- seem to think you're a jinx.
Now where, I wonder, would they have gotten that idea?

Say again?
I'm going after the Black Pearl. I know where it's going to be, and I'm going to take it.
Jack, it's a fool's errand: You've heard the tales they tell about the Pearl.
Aye, and that's why I know where it's going to be, and that's why I know what Barbossa is up to. All I need is a crew.
A fool's errand.
Not if the fool has something Barbossa wants. Something he needs.
And you've got that, have you?

Kid's a bit of a stick, isn't he?
That he is.

Shut up, before you lose them all!
These are the only ones worth having. And we're going to need them --

We'd best drop canvas, sir!
She can hold a bit longer.

What's in your head to put you in such a fine mood?
We're catching up!

How do we expect to find an island no one can find -- with a compass that doesn't work?
Now, lad, just because it don't point north don't mean it don't work. That compass gives bearings to the Isla de Muerta, wherever it may lay.
Really? So ... what's the story on the pistol?

I'll tell lee. Now, Jack Sparrow has an honest streak in him, and that's where the whole problem starts. This was when he was Captain of the Black Pearl --
What? He never told me that.
Ah -- he's learned, then. Plays things more close to the vest. See, Jack was a cartographer, back in Old England. Somehow he came by the money to commission the Pearl. Hired himself a crew, promised each man an equal share. So, they're forty days out, and the First Mate says, everything's an equal share, that should mean the location of the island, too. So Jack gave up the bearings. That night, there was a mutiny.

Jack gave hisself up for the sake of his loyal crew. He was marooned on an island, left there to die.
How did he get off the island?

How did you get off the island?
Ah, that's a dark and unpleasant tale, best left untold.

Wait -- what about the pistol?
The pistol. When a pirate is marooned, Will, he's given a pistol with a single shot. No good for hunting, or surviving, really. But after three weeks of starvation and thrist -- the option of that pistol begins to look good.

But I survived. And I still have that single shot. It's meant for one man. My mutinous first mate--
Barbossa.

How does he do that?
They'll be anchored on the lee side. Haul your wind, and keep to the weather of the island --

The curse drove you to gather this?
Aye. And not a bit of it any use to us, only hoarded. But it will drive us no longer.

What's that?
Depends.
On what?
On whether the stories are all true. If they are, that's a waterfall that spills over at high tide, with a short drop to an underground lagoon. If not --

You?!
Me!
You're in league with Barbossa!
No, I'm -- rescuing you.

Miss Swann! We're here to rescue you! It's going badly!
This way!

I'm glad we got here in time.
Truthfully -- you were a bit late.

Come on!
No. This won't work. I'll stay behind, and fight them. You go on.

No.
I'll lead them away.

Go to the opposite end of the island, and signal the ship. I'll keep 'em busy.
Are you sure? Jack -- this is not something you have to do.
I'm sure. When you've led the kind of life that I have, there are debts that must be paid. Maybe I can balance the scales a little.

I know whose blood you need, to end the curse.
Say the name, or I slit your throat.
No you won't.

Now?
Now. No, don't kill him.

Allow me the humor of listening to your terms.
Simple. I have something you won't more than anything. The way to free you from the curse of the treasure. You have something I want -- more than anything.
The Pearl? Oh, that's fine. And just how do you expect this to work?
You give me the Pearl. Then I tell you who you need.

That's your offer? You, sailing away nice and pretty with the Black Pearl, and all I have is a name?
That's right.
I'm supposed to ... trust you?

You see, I've got this honest streak in me -- in its own way, a sort of curse. Oh, and there's the fact that you have no choice.
I'll torture it out of you.
You left me on a desert island -- what worse can you do?

Blast you! I'll throw you in prison.
Wait as long as you like.
You're setting me up for a double cross, you with the ship, and me with nothing more than your word!
Let's say I tell you the wrong person. What would you do?
Track you down and --

Jack, I don't trust you, and that's a fact. Never trust a smiling man, you can lay to that.
See, that's where we're different. I trust you ... to do what it takes to get what you want.
You're playing this as close to the edge as any man, I'll give you that. We might just have to sign articles, you and I. Jack, you're a pirate at heart, that's certain.

What -- you don't have the medallion?
That fool woman took it. You be careful around her, Jack -- she's pretty enough, she'll steal your heart -- but pure evil inside.
I'll watch my back.
Bosun! Set up Mr. Sparrow's quarters, nice and fine ... in the brig. Meaning no disrespect, of course.

Why would my father send this to me?
To keep it away from them? No pirate would sail to London, for fear of Execution Dock.
If I had known --
-- then we never would have met.

I can't believe he would make such a sacrifice for us.
I guess you can never truly know someone else's heart.

It's a signal. If we resist, it won't just be death. There'll be torture as well.
We're not going to just surrender!
That we are.

We can at least fight -- we might be able to kill a few--
Will -- it'll go worse for us -- for Elizabeth, especially -- if we fight.

What's in your head, boy?
She. Goes. Free.
You've got one shot -- and we can't die.
You can't. I can.

Will -- don't do anything stupid! Don't say anything stupid --
My name is Will Turner, the son of Bootstrap Bill Turner. His blood runs in my veins. You need my blood. And on my word I will pull this trigger, and sink all the way down to Davy Jones' Locker!

Looks like your back to having nothing to offer.
And he's got Old Bill's courage. A curse on him, and you!

Enough of that! Name your terms.
Elizabeth goes free!
We got that part. Anything else?
And Jack. And the crew. Free and unharmed. If you agree ... then ... I will remain with you.

Agreed. You have my word, as a gentleman of fortune --
Will -- you can't trust him.

You must swear by the Holy Bible.
Eh? You have my word, then -- on the Good Book, I do swear, and the Lord spare my worthless soul.

No! You gave your word!
Quite, boy, or you'll lose your tongue. Those as know me know I wouldn't cross my word, and bring down bad luck on the ship. I agreed to set them free. I didn't when ... nor where.

It's pure evil to make a Captain walk the plank of his own ship, twice in one lifetime. No good can come of it.
Now, Jack. That reef is less than a league distant. It's a square deal all around, and you can't hope for better.
Someone needs to cut these bonds, then.

You'd best take a swim, Jack.
The last time you do this, you left me a pistol, with one shot.

That's proper, sir, according to the code.
By the powers, you're right! Where's Jack's pistol? Who's got it? Bring it forward!

So how did you get off that island, anyway?
You can go to your grave not knowing.
That's fair.

Has it changed since the last time you were here?
The trees are taller.

Captain Sparrow! We have to get off this island -- immediately!
Don't be thinking I'm not already working on it.

What? What's wrong? How will this help us get off the island?
It won't. It won't, and so we won't.

But ... you did it before! Last time --
Last time, I was here a grand total of three days. Last time, the rumrunners who used this island as a cache came by, and I bartered passage off. But from the looks of this, they've been out of business, and so that won't be happening again. We probably have your friend Norrington to thank for that.
So that's it? That's the secret grand adventure of the infamous Jack Sparrow? You spent three days on the beach drinking rum?
Welcome to the Caribbean, love.

You should look at our contretemps this way: we've got shade trees, thank the Lord. We've got some food on the trees, thank the Lord again. And we've got rum, praise the Lord. We can stay alive a month, maybe more. Keep a weather eye open for passing ships, and our chances are fair.
A month? Will doesn't have a month! We've got to do something to help him!
You're right. Here's luck to you, Will Turner.

Don't be thinking I'm happy about this, Elizabeth. But I see no use in wailing and gnashing my teeth over that which I can do nothing about.
Not when you can drink instead, at least.

Drink up me hearties, yo ho ...
What? What was that? Something funny, Miss Swann? Share, please.
Nothing ... it's nothing. Just ... I'm reminded of a song I learned as a child. A song about pirates.
I know a lot of songs about pirates, but none I'd teach a child. Let's hear it.
Oh, no ... it's silly. Back in England we didn't know a thing about pirates, really. They seemed so romantic and daring --

That was before I met one, of course.
Now I must hear this song. An authentic pirate song. Have at it.
Well, perhaps ... with a bit more to drink, I might ...
More to drink!

When I get the Black Pearl back, I'm going to teach it to the whole crew, and we'll sing it all the time!
You'll be positively the most fearsome pirates to sail the Spanish Main.

Jack, it must be so terrible for you, to be trapped here on this island, all over again.
Ah, well ... the company is better than last time. And the scenery has definitely improved.
Mr. Sparrow! I'm not sure I've had enough rum to allow that kind of talk.
We've got a few bottles left ... and we've yet to tap the kegs.

To freedom.
To the Black Pearl.

What are you doing? You've burned our food, the shade -- the rum!
Yes, the rum is gone.

Why?
One, because it is a vile drink that turns even the most respectable men into scoundrels. Two --

That signal is over a thousand feet high, which means it can be seen for two hundred leagues in every direction. The entire Royal Navy is out to sea looking for me -- do you think there is even a chance they could miss it?
You -- you burned up the island, for a one-time chance at being spotted?
Exactly.

Elizabeth, I'm relieved you're safe. Clap him in irons. And behind his back this time.
Commodore, you can't do that!
You're speaking up for him again?
He can locate Isla de Muerta -- but I doubt he'll be willing to help us from the brig.

We had time to get to know each other.
We are bound for Port Royal, not Isla de Muerta.

No. The pirates have taken Will --
Your father is frantic with worry. Our mission was to rescue you and return home. That is what we shall do. Mr. Turner's fate is regrettable. But so was his decision to engage in piracy.
Commodore, please!

Norrington, think about it ... the Black Pearl, its captain and crew ... the last pirate threat in the Caribbean. How can you pass that up?
By remembering that I serve others, not only myself.

Commodore, I beg you -- please do this ... for me. As a wedding gift.
I am to understand that you will accept my marriage proposal on the condition I rescue Mr. Turner?
Not as a condition -- a request.

Elizabeth, I hereby withdraw my proposal.
What?
I know where your heart truly lies.

You may seclude yourself in my cabin. I'm afraid we do not have any ladies' clothing aboard.
Then I can wear men's clothing.
That would hardly be proper.
Well, I am not going to stay hidden in some cabin, or I suppose it's going to be heaving bosoms and bare for the remainder of the voyage!

You didn't tell Commodore Norrington everything.
Nor did you, I noticed.
He might delay the rescue ... and that would be too late.
Exactly.
These men will be facing an enemy that seemingly cannot be killed.
I have a plan. If it succeeds, then any battle will be decidedly brief ... and one-sided.
What's your plan?

I don't like the situation, Mister Sparrow. The island is riddled with caves. I will not put my men at a disadvantage.
Funny, I was thinking along those lines. How about you let me go in alone, and while you're setting up an ambush, I'll trick the pirates out to you.
You would do that?
They left me stranded. Twice. What have you got to lose?
Nothing I wouldn't be please to be rid of.
I knew you'd listen to reason!

That chart I drew up'll get you past the reefs. If you're steersman's good enough, that is.
I'll be at the wheel myself.
I'll slip in, talk them into to come out, and you'll be free to blow holy high heaven the whole lot of them.

No reason to fret. It's just a prick of the finger and a few drops of blood.
Turner blood doesn't flow pure in his veins. Best play it safe, and spill it all.
I guess there is a reason to fret.

Do you have any idea where you're going?
Jack!
Don't talk. These caves magnify sound. Just follow me.

Are you certain this is the right way?
It's the right way.

No, I really think I do.
All right then.

Why don't I want to do this?
Because, right about now, the H.M.S. Dauntless is lying in wait in the harbor.

Jack!
-- and its guns and crew will cut you and your men to pieces the moment you step outside these caves.

Do you believe him?
No. But him I believe. He us genuinely angry.

You've no hope of surviving Norrington's attack ... that is, if you're mortal.
What're you suggesting?

Like after you've killed ... Every ... Last ... One ... of Norrington's men.
I can't help wondering, Jack, why you're being so helpful and all? Last time you did that, it didn't end well for you.
The situation has changed.
That so?
Aye. See, after you're done with the Royal Navy, you'll have a bit of a problem: the H.M.S. Dauntless. There you'll be, with two lovely ships on your hands, and what to do? Of course you'll decide you deserve the bigger one, and who's to argue? The Dauntless a first- rate ship-of-line, and with it, you can rule the seas. But if you're Captain of the Dauntless, who's left for the Black Pearl?

Now, you can take care of the Dauntless, right?
Men! Are you up for it?

There's ... another exit?
Aye, for us there is.

All the men in place, sir. Ready to fire.
Wait for my order -- what the blazes is that?

Just so you know, Jack -- I don't think you're that clever. I think you're a fool. A mortal fool.
Remarkable how often those two traits coincide.

So what now, Jack Sparrow? Are we to be two immortals, locked in epic battle until the trumpets of Judgement Day?
Or you could surrender.

Hah. Ten years you carried that pistol, and you end up wasting your shot.
He didn't waste it.

Well, you're the worst pirate I've ever heard of. You're a man who can be trusted, who can be counted on, and who can't betray his friends. What kind of pirate is that?
The worst. On the other hand, maybe I'm a man who can't pass up a chance for revenge against the black-hearted bastard who stole my ship and left me to die in the middle of the ocean -- twice! -- and who knows how to get what he wants. Now that's a great pirate.

There. And don't you dare tell me that wasn't a proper kiss!
Elizabeth, I think it doesn't matter that we are of a different class --
It doesn't!
-- but that was not a proper kiss.

Sir! Shall I break out the cannons?
I don't think that will be necessary.

AnaMaria, trim the mainsail!
Aye, aye, sir!
Mr. Gibbs, organize a cleaning detail -- you and Cotton. I want every inch of the Pearl spic-and- span and ship-shape!
<|endoftext|>
