I don't know what you expected with Joseph- fucking-Conrad for Chrissake. I mean this is Hollywood, pal.
All right! Enough! I've heard this from Schaefer and RKO. I've heard it from everyone--
But you keep coming up with the same elitist crap - - HEART OF DARKNESS with a million dollar budget?! - - no one wants to see that.
Nonsense

What are movies about, Orson?
Forget it-
What are movies about?
Telling stories.
Nope.
Showing life
Who the hell wants to see life?! People are sick to death of life! They want make-believe, pal. Fantasy. They want Tarzan and Jane, not Tristan and Isolde.

Magic
Butts on seats. That's what movies are about. You got one job in Hollywood -- everyone has the same job, in fact -- putting the butts on the seats. You gotta sell 'em popcorn and Pepsi- cola. It's all about popcorn and Pepsi-cola.
Not for me.
Then you better get ready to be the youngest never- was in Hollywood history.
That's better than being the oldest has-been in Hollywood history.
You're a laugh-riot, kid.

So, we've got to come up with our movie. Our biography.
Right-
We find the man and then we dissect him-
Like a bug.
But with compassion and insight--
Christ, we gotta go! The old man doesn't cotton to lateness.

How about Howard Hughes? We could do Hughes
I'm not fucking with Hughes. That shit-kicker would kill us dead, baby. Just like Jean Harlow
Howard Hughes killed Jean Harlow?
Sure. Dropped her out of his Lockheed over Utah

And we would hear them scuttling around at night with their little red eyes and little yellow t-t- teeth and I'm just imagining plague lice jumpin' all over the damn place So we set t-t-traps everywhere. And every morning we would find the t-t-traps sprung but no mice!
Houdini mice.

Sigmund Freud?
Kid, you just got your ass kicked on Joseph Conrad and now you're gonna go to Schaefer and tell him you wanna do the id and the superego? Stop being so goddamn smart.

Manolete?!
Who the hell's Manolete?
The great Spanish bullfighter
I don't wanna write about no spic.
No, it's perfect! When in doubt, put on a cape! False noses and faux beards and flowing capes have been the life-blood of the actor's craft since the days of lrving and Booth. Imagine me in a glittering suit of lights on the dusky Andalusian plains--

Ever met Walter Winchell?
No, when I was but a tender lad--
Last week would this be?

Who are you, sir?
My name is Orson Welles
The actor
And director.
I see. And you are in California for what reason?
To make pictures.

Well, I wish you luck. It is a treacherous business.
So I've been told.
In Hollywood the fiercest bulls are the most brutally killed.
I'll remember that.

The man doesn't allow drinking or cigars? This is monstrous.
The old man has his own way of doing things
He's nothing but a hypocrite. He preaches morality every day in his sordid little papers for everyone else in the world but he lives openly with his mistress.

Look at those hands. Those are the hands of an artist. A modern Caravaggio.
No, baby, those are the hands of a killer

God, these parties are the worst
You need to get outta here, Rapunzel
That's why he has the parties, he says it's like bringing the world to me.
Why don't you come down to LA? Stay with us for a while.
With about twenty of his spies on my tail. No thanks.

It's not so bad here. After all, what girl doesn't want to live in a castle?
Mr. Welles certainly is a caution
Yeah, Orson's a real piece of work. But deep down, he's a good kid. Real deep down.
And attractive in a hammy sort of way.
Mm.

Listen, you come down and stay with us for a few days. Just tell the old man that--
I can't
Sure you can, just--
He needs me here.

"In Xanadu did Kubla Khan a stately pleasure dome decree. . . "How big is it, all told? The estate?
The whole joint is half the size of Rhode Island.
Jesus
Yeah, it's the place God would have built, if he'd had the money.

So you ever gonna do a picture?
Not you too
It's gonna be fine, Orson. You're gonna do great.
I wonder sometimes.
You're just scared.
Am I?

Of being found out. Of not being a genius
Oh, but haven't you heard? I'm the Boy Wonder. I've been a genius since the moment I was born.
We've known each other too long, Orson. Sling the bullshit elsewhere.
Carole, you wound me! As if I could hope to pacify you with evasions of--
Don't insult me with your cute press quotes Save it for Louella.

Goddamn it. I gotta have some kinda life!
There's no call for that language-
There certainly is I There certainly is! Aw, to hell with you!

That poor woman.
She knew what she was signing on for After all, she took the money.

Mank! You scoundrel! What took you so long?!
Orson, please ... it's too bright

Here you are, up with the birds for once, you vampire!
Okay, boy wonder, what?
Listen ... I've got it! It came to me like a thief in the night! Pure inspiration! Total magnificence!

Oh for Christ's sake-
I know who we're going to get I The great American biography! A journey into the soul of the beast.
This better be good
Image a man that has shaped his time. A titanic figure of limitless influence. Think about empire. A man with an empire at his feet. A man, like a baron, living in a palace, a glorious palace on a hill, and controlling the permutations of everyone beneath him. Feudal.
Oh Christ...
Image the possibilities as this man controls the public perception of the nation through his--
Oh Christ

Yes.
Please don't say this.
Mank-
Don't whisper it. Don't even think it
How long have we spent casting our minds about the world when the answer to our prayers was right here under our noses -- every single day in the newspapers and on the radio -- waiting for us in that ridiculous castle! Waiting for--!
Orson. Stop. Just stop

Now remember he's a public figure who sought out that publicity so legally he can't stop us from--
Listen to you. You child! Men like him don't bother with things like legality. They don't have to. You know why, boy-o? Power. Power like you couldn't even begin to imagine.
Howard Hughes, he would just kill us. Hearst he would kill us and fuck everything we ever loved.
We're doing Hearst.

You may think you know what you're talking about, kid, but believe me, you don't. You're talking about going into a battle you can never win on a battlefield so far above things like movies and Hollywood that Hearst won't even have to glance down when he crushes you. When he flicks you away with one finger. I'm talking about money and influence and evil beyond your capacity to imagine Hell.
So speaks the court jester.
Fuck you
I expected more from you.
Sorry to disappoint.
How does it feel, Mank? Going up to the palace and making all the lords and ladies laugh as you tell your little stories and beg for crumbs at the table? How does it feel being the ugly little monkey they keep to amuse themselves--?!

I remember a man who wrote I He was a brilliant writer who dazzled me time and time again with his wit and insight--
Don't do this
Where did he go? He hasn't had a screen credit in four years--
Don't do this
--Because he has been so furiously busy wasting himself. Amusing his keepers. Because he is a sycophant! Because he has been thrown out of every studio in Hollywood and no one will hire him because he's a drunk- -!

Let me out.
Listen to me-
Fuck you--
I am giving you the last chance you will ever have to be yourself again!
I don't have it anymore?!
When I was a kid I wanted to scorch the world too - - I had all kinda dreams about making great pictures and telling great stories. But all that's finished for me--
It doesn't have to be
And yeah, sure, Hearst's a great subject. Been keeping notes on him for years for my ... great American novel. But I can't do it anymore. No studio's gonna hire me and I - -
I'll hire you -- right now-
I can't do it. okay?! I drink too much -- I drink all the fucking time and I don't have it anymore. All that is over for me--
NOT UNLESS I. TELL YOU IT IS

He'll destroy us.
Then let him. What have we got to lose, you and I?

So, who is he? We have to know him.
Everyone sees someone different. That's what we show.
How?
Like a jewel. Turn it in the light and a different facet is illuminated.

The key -- the key -- the clue -- what does this man recall on his death bed? Okay, Mank, you're dying. What's the last image that comes to you? Right now.
This girl on a dock. White dress. Never said a word to her.
Why her?
She was . . . innocent

All men love. But men like Hearst -- they don't bother with convention because--
They don't have to.
He loves in his own way. On his conditions. Because those are the only conditions he has ever known.

Hearst looks down at the world at his feet Everything has always been beneath him.
And what does he see?
The people. When they pay him homage, he adores them. But when they have the ... audacity to question him. To doubt him. To embarrass him. Then he despises them.
And when he looks up? What does he dream about?

Tome it's a question of truth and illusion. Don't you get tired of the errant falsity in motion pictures?
Huh?
What we are going to do is shoot life -- in all it's joyous complexity.

Now, Orson, you know I'm just dyin' to see your picture and I know it's gonna be boffo, but you're writing about a publisher, right?
We're using-
You're not doin' Hearst, are you?
Good God no! The character is a delicious amalgamation of various press barons--
A delicious amalgamation, is it?

That's right. A symphony of those: vaunted and valued tellers-of-truth. Those heroic minutemen standing sentry on our liberties--
Orson, hold on. Look into my eyes. Tell me you are not doing Hearst.
I am not doing Hearst.

It's 350 pages long.
Yeah, but the margins are real wide.
It is 350 pages of ... ABSOLUTE INSPIRATION!

It's good, huh?
Good?! Good?! Words fail you at last! It's terrific! Now I'll have to do some shaping, of course, and some of the scenes aren't exactly . . . exactly . . .
What?
Short enough. But this is a grand start And I think we need to change the name.
The title?
No, AMERICAN is a blessed title directly sent from God's soul to your mind. We shall never change that! I mean the name of the publisher. Charles Foster Craig doesn't have the knives-out poetry I need. I was thinking about "Kane" -- you like that?
Cain -- like the Bible guy?
K-A-N-E. One strong syllable. Kane I
Craig is one syllable
But it's not a great syllable

I --um-- I don't know if I should. I ain't been drinking since I started on this--
To my invaluable comrade Drink up!

Jesus Christ --
YOU CAN'T DO THIS TOME -- THIS WAS OUR STORY, REMEMBER? -- YOU AND ME AND GODDAMN EVERYONE ELSE - - REMEMBER THAT?!

This is supposed ta be Siam or some such. Some kinda lousy B-B-Balinese temple. This look like a temple to you? I can't see it myself--
Darling, I talked to Millicent.

There. That's right.
She's a Catholic. She says it would put her soul in peril. Divorce is a very serious sin, apparently.
Nuts. She only cares about the money. She thinks I'll make you cut her out of the w-w-w-w... will.

It's an awful title, of course, but I can't think of anything better. Someone came up with A SEA OF UPTURNED FACES -- which has a nice, grand ring to it -- and I thought of JOHN CITIZEN, USA but that strikes me as a bit Warner Brothers. Or, God forbid, Capraesque. I suppose AMERICAN will do for now but--
CITIZEN KANE
Pardon?
CITIZEN KANE There's your title.

A "Z" and a "K" in the title. That would draw the eye. For the poster. I like that THE PRISONER OF ZENDA had a "Z" and a "P" and that worked--
Now look, Orson, let's not get ahead of ourselves. The budget projections on this--
I know, I know! But what more can you expect of me?! I have pared this story down to the marrow to save money but to cut more would be to--!
Listen, get off your horse with me. You know I've stuck by you since the beginning of time it seems like, while the stockholders in New York were ready to cut and run and everyone else in Hollywood was set to toss me in a rubber room. But your contract stipulates a max budget of 500 thousand. This one's gonna come in at 750 thousand. What do we do about that?

Now don't have a fit -- but I want you to think again about doing WAR OF THE WORLDS-
Jesus
Do WAR OF THE WORLDS as a feature and everyone's happy. You make some money and New York's happy and you have a track record and then we'll move on to KANE.
Please don't ask me to do this.
It's the safe bet, Orson. There's nothing wrong with that.

For the title
Ah, it's a grand title.

"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud.
Again.

"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud.
Again.

"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud.
Again

"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud."
Again

"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud
Again

Orson, you wanna take five?
Five...? Yes. No. We're done today

And I'm looking at them -- and they're all looking at me and I don't know who should pour the tea. '
Uh huh.
I just can't . . see it anymore

I want you back
Fuck you. You wanted me out. I'm out.
I'm sorry.
I don't care.

Did I ever tell you about my father?
I don't give a shit about-
He was a drunk. And he was my father and I was ashamed of him.

It's just not low enough. This is the scene. We have to look up at these two man as pillars soaring to the sky. As towering virtues in combat--
Spare me the aria, I know what you want--
I need my shoes in total focus right here and also Joe back there--!
I know what you want but it can't be done!
Take apart the fucking camera rig -- we could get a few more inches down and then tilt up--
Orson -- we can't get the fucking camera any fucking lower so find another fucking shot!

"Well, if you got drunk to talk to me about Miss Alexander, don't bother. I'm not interested. I've set back the sacred cause of reform, is that it? All right, if that's the way they want it, the people have made their choice. It's obvious the people prefer Jim Gettys to me."
"You talk about the people as if you owned them. As though they belonged to you. As long as I can remember, you've talked about--" Orson, I am so goddamn tired--

Keep filming.
I can't remember the lines!
Then make them up! You're drunk and you're angry.

This is the chance you've been waiting for, boy. Tell that son of a bitch just what you think of him!
We're not all hopped up on benzedrine, Orson I Some of us humans need sleep!

You're not going to get another chance, boy! Look right at the monster and you tell him--
"You don't care about anything except you. You just want to persuade people that you
love them so much that they ought to love you back. Only you want love on your own terms. "
"A toast then, Jedediah, to love on my own terms. Those are the only terms anybody ever knows, his own."

How 'bout a real drink?
We done?
Yeah.

This is an abomination There's no music and--
They've all seen a rough cut
The magazines are one thing -- but Hedda! Why did we have to let her come?!
When Hedda says "I'm coming" you mix a lot of martinis and you pray.

Schaefer, I gotta see this Welles picture
Louella, hello, I was just fixing a drink, would you like--?
You drink at 10 am, do you?
No -- no -- I mean--
I wanna see the picture today
That might be a tad difficult because Orson is scoring the picture now and he's very particular about the music--
Cut the malarkey, buddy. The boss himself wants me to see the picture today.
He personally asked you to?
That's right

Hearst?
Uh-huh

It's all you. It has the political campaigns and the mining fortune and the war with Pulitzer and the castle. And ... Marion.
How so?
The jigsaw puzzles and the, urn, career -- the man spending a fortune to make her a star -- only it's opera and not movies. And...
Yes?
The drinking.

Thank you for your time
Thank you, sir. She begins to leave

Miss Parsons, I have one additional question for you.
Sir?
Why did we not know about this sooner?
Sir?
I pay you a good deal of money to be my eyes and ears in Hollywood, do I not? If you cannot provide this simple service you are of no use to me.
Sir, I-
Please be quiet.

He lied to me
He looked into my face and told me it wasn't about you.
And how do you feel when you are lied to?

I want blood
Good. Retain that feeling. Let it nourish you from this day forth. It shall nourish us both

And this is the evening edition. Notice anything?
The ad..

Louis
Randolph!
Hope you don't mind my popping in--

Quite. And this is why I came to visit. Have you heard about this CITIZEN KANE picture?
Over at RKO?

Mm. Not a very good picture I am told.
Uh-hub.
Apparently it details the exploits of a publisher like myself. Entirely too much like myself. Do you follow so far?
Yeah

And maybe we could get Mr. Warner and Mr. Goldwyn and Mr. Cohn and Mr. Selznick to play as well.
You know that can't happen.
Oh, why is that?
Why is that, Louis?
Bel Air is restricted.

See what you can do about this CITIZEN KANE picture, won't you?
Yeah

That's right, fella, no Hearst paper will run an RKO ad until you agree that CITIZEN KANE will never see the light of day.
Louella, please, be reasonable, I understand you have problems with Orson's picture but maybe we can work something out--
Nix, sweetie. You shelve it
Oh for God's sake, Louella-
And Mr. Hearst has authorized me to tell you that you're looking at the most beautiful lawsuit in history if you release this picture. He'll bleed your little studio dry and you can all go on back to New York and do Shakespeare with the Boy Wonder.
Can I talk to Hearst?
You are talking to him.

The Journal was pretty harsh to Roosevelt today.
You oughta lay off him -- he is the p-p-president, after all.
He is a Bolshevik. He will have us at war by the end of the year. I think I'm going to run that wheelchair picture.
Don't

How bad is it?
Nothing for you to worry about, darling
Pops

The S.E.C. has turned down my request for relief on the debts.
How much?
It's not really--
How much?

We're 125 million dollars in debt?
Yes.

How does one get 125 million dollars in debt?
One . . . buys things.

Oh, no--
Yes!
He's Christ?
I'm Christ
You want to do the life of Jesus?
Yes! Vibrant and modern and stark like a Picasso sketch drawn to flashes of lightning I We shoot the whole thing in the gallant American West--

Hey, kid. Gregg.
Mank, sit down. You missed the opening of the new picture but I'll go back--
No, you gotta hear this-

No, but I can imagine. What am I today? A "puny upstart" or a "spoiled dilettante" -- no, she wouldn't know how to spell that
"And how is the country to feel when this industry continues to employ bedraggled foreigners and swarthy refugees instead of real Americans? Doesn't Hollywood know there's a Depression on? Don't real Americans deserve work?"
Well, at least she's off KANE today
No she's not. Don't you get it, ya lunk? She's using code language to the studio bosses. "Bedraggled foreigners and swarthy refugees" -- who the hell do you think she's talking about?
Hedy Lamarr?
Jews. She's talking about Jews.

Who owns this town? Who runs every goddamn studio? The tribe, baby. These fuckers hear the word "Jew" and they start sweating. Like Ester Williams' pool they start sweating.
So they're Jews. . .
This is just the first shot. Maestro. Sooner or later she's gonna use the word. And all those boys know that there is only one thing this country hates more than the coloreds and that's the Jews.
Christ.
Me, I'm proud to be a Jew, I got no problem. You don't like it, fuck you. But with these guys it's like a dirty word. All they wanna be is good red- white-and-blue Americans, and the way they see it you can't be a good American and a Jew. So Sam Goldfish becomes Sam Goldwyn and David Selznick becomes David 0. Selznick -- like anyone's gonna think he's Irish for fuck's sake--
What does this have to do with--?
Believe you me, they're gonna do anything -- and I mean absolutely anything -- to stop that word from gettin' out.
What?! Are they going to kill me? Is that what they're going to do?!

If he had known about KANE before you made it, you'd be dead already.
It's too late. The movie's made
They won't let it out. Not Hearst. Not the other studio heads--
You wrote the damn thing, Mank Aren't you going to fight for it?!
I told you this was going to happen! I told you he was going to come after us! So we took the chance anyway and we lost. That's how it goes, okay? I got my check, kid, and so did you -- and that's what it's all about -- so fuck it and move on.

Well -- he got us, didn't he? She stands and goes quickly to pour a drink. A forced laugh
Nailed us, hub? The crazy old man and his whore.
Marion--
Bought and p-p-paid for. Just like one of his goddamn statues. Well at least in the movie he married her!
This picture--
I am not that woman.

Then you explain it to me?!
There's nothing to explain
A million dollars a year on art and st-st-statues and there's nothing to explain?!
I will not defend my life to you--
I'm not asking you to defend anything. But we're in a pickle and we gotta talk about it.
We are in no "pickle" -- as you would euphemistically have it.
You gotta wake up now. Pops.
There is nothing to discuss-
You don't have any money left, okay?! That's the truth. I don't wanna say it, nobody else will say it, but it's the truth. You spent it all. You can't buy the Tribune in Chicago -- you can't buy ^ g-g- goddamn thing. Now you better face up to it--
You are being typically theatrical, Marion. I need the Tribune to--
You don't need it! That's the problem you always think you need everything--

That -- did you need that? How much did that cost?
It's 12th Century. From Deauville -- in France.
I know where Deauville is for C-C-Christ's sake.
You needn't use that language with me
Did you need it? Did you need any of it?
I wanted it
There's a different between want and
Not for me.
But why? Just so you can show it all off -- just so everyone can see what a b-b-big man you are?!

That's right. You've captured me exactly. Goodnight.
You will not walk out on me
You are repellant when you drink.
Tough shit. We need to t-t-talk about this--
You are slovenly and unattractive and I won't t-t-t-tolerate it.

Fuck you, Mr. Kane.
I will not have this in my home.
I just want to understand--
No, you don't. You want to condemn me, like everyone else. You want to point to the pathetic, old man grown lunatic with his spending -- trapped in his ridiculous
castle -- still fighting old battles he will never win with Pulitzer and Roosevelt and Hollywood--
I don't want you to--
There is nothing to understand but this: I am a man who could have been great, but was not.

When I met him I was just 20. And he was 55. I saw the gold ring and just grabbed on. And he was going to make me a star.
And he did.

I did my best but, well, you know me
Sure
Thing that bothers me now, though, looking back is that I really think I could have been something ... special.
Thinking like that is only gonna drive you nuts You were a great star and you had a good run. That oughta be enough.
Yeah. But all of a sudden it's not
You know this CITIZEN KANE picture? About Pops and everything?
Uh-huh
The character that's supposed to be me, Susan Alexander--
Marion, everyone knows you're not like that--
But I am That's the killer, honey.

May I help you?
I, um, need an estimate on some jewelry I might wish to sell. But d-d-discretion is very important to me b-b-because I don't want anyone t-t-to, um, know that--
Excuse me, I hope this isn't rude, but aren't you Marion Davies?
Yes.
Well, this is a great pleasure. Miss Davies! I just saw that ENCHANTMENT is playing at a the Tivoli, the revival house in Santa Monica. That was a fine picture!
Thank you-
Not one of them today has what you had, Miss Davies. Not one of them.
Thank you -- b-b-but I'd really like t-t-to--
Of course, of course. How can we be of service?
As I said I have some j-j-j-j- that I might wish t-t-to sell and I wanted an estimate--
Surely My pleasure, Miss Davies..

What do you want me to do, Orson? Radio City won't premiere the picture. Louella threatened them with some bullshit about
Then find another theater
You don't think I've tried? No one is willing to open the picture
Then we'll open it in Detroit or Dallas or Kalamazoo for God's sake! We'll show it in goddamn circus tents and--!

Listen to me. The press ban is killing us and the distributors won't book it. And meantime I'm dealing with the stockholders in New York who are scared shitless -- and I'm this far from getting fired myself -- and you don't have a friend in the world but me right now. So you have got to trust that I'll do what I can to--
"Do what you can"?! That's not good enough I
Well it' s all you've got !
You're with them, aren't you? You're going to bury my movie. They bought you!
For Christ's sake, shut up--
Why don't you just have the guts to admit it
How dare you talk to me like that! Do you think I'm like all the rest of those pirates?! Like Mayer and Warner? Is that what you think--?!
It's just that my movie is so-
"Your movie" -- I am so sick of that! It's your movie -- but it's his life! Did you ever think about that?! Did you ever think about that old man and Marion having to watch as you tore them apart?!

Do you every think for one second that you might have some responsibility for what you're doing?! For cutting and slashing everything in your way so you can have your goddamn movie?!
That soulless monster gets no tears from me.
Who the fuck are you trying to kid? You are that soulless monster.

He truly doesn't care if he ever works again.
Yeah, ain't it swell?

This isn' t some kinda fucking game! You know how many people RKO employs?! You know how many people depend on what we do for a living?!
I really think you're
You wanna commit suicide, fine! You got some death- wish, fine! But you will not drag this company down with you!
It was a -joke, George

It came.
800,000 dollars fully covers the production budget and a little more. Hell, George, you even make a profit on the deal.
Very generous
And we gotta be clear here. I need the negative and every existing print.
To do what?
That's for me to decide.
You're going to destroy it
No, maybe put it on the shelf until the old man kicks it.
You're lying to me.
We already made the same offer to the stockholders.

You talked to New York?
Yes
You talked to Mr. Swanbeck?

Yes
Get out
You're bettin' on an inside straight this time. You'll never pull it off.
Get out.

Is that from one of the Gospels?
Kinda.

You're not still mad at me, I hope
No, we're jake. But listen-
Look, not a single scene shot in the studio! We've found natural locations for the whole story--
Hold on a sec. I got news. We finally found somewhere to premiere KANE but--
I told you! Where? Grauman's? El Capitan? Or did Radio City come crawling back?
The Palace in New York. But Orson there's something else.

I think you better sit down
I don't want to sit

They came to me with an offer. 800,000 for the negative and all the prints.
And they went to the stockholders in New York.
Oh God.
I been talking to Swanbeck in New York and... Orson, I think they're gonna take it A long pause as Welles looks at Schaefer

YOU STUPID, LITTLE MAN! HOW COULD YOU HAVE LET THIS HAPPEN?! I GAVE YOU MY SOUL AND NOW YOU'RE GOING TO SELL IT!?
This ain't George's doing--!

I wonder. Do you have any idea what you have done?
Do you?
Intimately. For every sin you have placed on my head I could give you a hundred others. I have been swimming in blood my entire life. But I retain a belief, perhaps you will think it old fashioned, undoubtedly you will, but I believe that private lives should not be public property.
Elegant words, sir, when you have made your name and your fortune on slander and innuendo and gossip. In your papers you taught the world how to look under every rock. I learned at the knee of the master.
So where does that leave us, Mr. Welles? What kind of sad future are we two making? A future where men will do anything to sell their newspapers and their movies? A future where no price is too high for fame and power? When we will all scratch each other to pieces just to be heard?

It's my birthday this week. I'll be 26.
Happy birthday.

Monstro! Ran into Walter Winchell outside He wants to play Herod in the picture. Hiya, George.
Herman.
So ain't this just the bee's knees? The high muckey-mucks dolled up all Aztec-like for the human sacrifice.

You gonna watch?
Hell, I know how it ends. Hey, Rosebud's the sled!
Mank!
Face it, Orson, they're gonna hate it. I told you, not enough closeups and too many scenes with a bunch of New York actors.

Oh God. . .
Relax, George. It's gonna go great. Trust me. Have I ever lied to you?

You know something, Orson, you haven't done anything but lie to me from the moment we met. But, ya know, I'd do it again in a second.
It was fun, wasn't it?
It was the best, kid
So, on to the Life Of Christ!
Without me. I'm afraid. I got the axe this morning.

Shit
George...

What have I done?
Aw, cheer up, George'll probably be running Fox by the morning. Let's get a drink.

You know, all this nightmare we went through with Hearst. The whole thing... And in the end, probably no one will ever remember the picture anyway.
Yeah, you're probably right.
<|endoftext|>
