Until you came along we were going to Sonora.
What do you know about that. Did you sell your place?
Not exactly. They decided gambling and dancing were bad for people. Can I make it?
Depends on how good you drive.

There you are. Now take it easy and you'll be all right.
Thank you, Mr. Graham.

Aspen doesn't want us Mr. Graham. They threw us out.
They shouldn't have done that.
We tried to point that out. But there were some pretty nosey citizens who wouldn't listen to reason. They said Aspen had outgrown us. It's all right to play poker in your own home but not in a saloon.
I knew something would happen when they started puttin' up fences and passin' laws.

Goodbye and thanks.
I don't like to see you go.

How does she draw?
A little hot.

That's right.
I don't see no sense to makin' people leave town if they don't want to leave.

Hello Graham -- Joe -- Mr. Gardner.
Graham's got something to tell you might interest you.

You should be. Maybe Lednov heard about that Sonora ranch of yours.
Maybe he did.
We're going to look for him. Want to come along?
I've got eleven horses to get over the mountains before snow catches me and covers the feed.
And that's more important than finding Lednov?
Like you said, maybe he knows where my ranch is. If he does, he'll be waiting on the porch.

Who's Lednov?
A man I used to know.

You might tell a fellow things, 'specially if the fellow's your brother, seems to me.
Like what?

Like why you're buyin' a whole slew of 30 30 shells all of a sudden.
I don't want to run short.
You never said this Lednov's name before, that I can remember.
No call to. That jail looked pretty solid to me. How's she feel?
Nice.

But it's leaded up and anyway a 22's no good for real huntin'. You shoot a man with a 22 and where are you?
The thing to do is stick to rabbits.

What was he in jail for?
You sure worry that bone. He killed a fellow.
In a fight?
The other fellow wasn't even lookin'.
This is an awful nice gun. Certainly come in handy when there's men around who shoot people that aren't lookin'.

You must be plenty worried about Lednov sneakin' up on us. Think he will?
Yes.
At the ranch maybe?
Maybe at the ranch. Maybe sooner than that.
Do you have to be so close-mouthed? I'm your brother. And I'm ridin' with you. Remember?
All right. I'll tell you.

That's Lednov! We come along here.
And meet him there.
Unless the sheriff gets too close and he holes up.

Sure a lot of guys lookin' for Lednov.
Yeah -- and Lednov's only lookin' for one man. Me.
Why?
He doesn't like me. What you eatin'?
Lednov.

They sure must have been travelin'. This keeps up we can start a store.
Things get tough next winter, you'll have somethin' to wear.

Anybody hurt?
No. We came down the hill a little fast and... ...the wheel broke. Can you fix it for us?

What's the matter with her?
Too much excitement. How about the surrey. Can you fix it?

This must have been in the family a long time.
It was a gift from the citizens of Aspen. I'm Mary Wells.

And this is Helen Carter.
I'm Clay Phillips. My brother Steve.

Pleased to meet you, ma'am. We found your trunk. Were you doin' the driven'?
I was at first. Then I was hanging on. Are you going far?

Yes, ma'am.
As far as -- Sonora?
Just about.

I've got eleven horses.
Morgan blood. The beat in Nevada. Clay and me have a place on the Toulomne River. We're going to raise horses like these.

They won't be riding in the wagon.
Did you ever try taking a bunch of horses over Sonora Pass? It's quite a job.
You can't leave us here.
Course I can't. I'll give you a lift to the first ranch.

What good is it going to do us to go to some ranch?
You can stay here if you like.
We have to get to Sonora. There are jobs waiting for us there. We'll pay you for your trouble.
I'm not running a stage line, ma'am, and I can't take a chance on losing the horses.

Our kind of women?
You'll have to drive -- except down hill.

Maybe you're going about this all wrong. Why not try telling him we'll do the cookin' and mendin' and washin' for him. That usually works. Yeah, but suppose he took us up on it. Where would we be?
Maybe in Sonora.

What's the matter with her?
Too much excitement. Or maybe it's just the heat. How about the surrey. Can you fix it?

You think that's all we busted -- You should see...
Now where's she goin'? --

I -- lost something.
It wouldn't happen to be this...

And this is Helen Carter.
I'm Clay Phillips. My brother Steve.

Stretch out under the seat, Miss.
Which ranch?
How's that?

So am I.
It's a nice place owned by an old couple named Wyatt.

Thanks. And isn't there something we can do about supper -- or making the beds?
Steve and me, we use a saddle for a pillow and roll up in a tarp.
But you eat, don't you?
Mostly, we open a can of beans and boil some coffee.
Where do you keep the can opener?
In the grub box. Toward morning the dew gets kind of heavy so maybe you better fix up a bed under the wagon. Spread some bunch grass under the tarp and the ground won't be so hard.

Where'd they go?
Swimming.

Drop yours. I'm gunshy.
Then don't come sneakin' around a man's camp.
A fellow sees a fire go out all of a sudden, he don't take chances. My name's Clayton and I'm looking for someone.

I found their surrey --
So did I. They were in it.
She's a friend -- took off this morning sort of sudden while I wasn't around.

Here's a man says he's looking for you girls.
Hello, Miss Wells.

With a milk pail in one hand and a marriage license in the other.
Why didn't you say you wanted to get married back in Aspen. I told the man in Sonora there were four of us. If only three show up, he might call the whole deal off. We've got to stick together. Like we've always done.

Of course it'll work. You can get another girl to fill out the act.
And look at it this way. How about Jim -- it puts him in a sort of tough spot.

If you were in his shoes would you take one of us home?
I'm not in his shoes, so leave me out of it.

Steve maybe you better get some wood for the fire.
Would you, Mr. Phillips?
Go on, there's a good boy.

Is that your kind of reading, Steve?
I can't read, Ma'am. I just look at the pictures.

Your brother's always looked after you, hasn't he?
Since I can remember, Ma'am.
But he just never troubled to have you get any schooling?

It wasn't Clay's fault. We've been moving around most all the time -- mebbe when we get the ranch and stay in one place I can learn my letters then --
Don't you even know your letters?

Would you like to learn them?
I sure would.
Maybe I could start you out.
That'd be swell. You know, you're an awful lot different than I thought you'd be.

You're so nice.
Did someone say I wasn't nice?
Oh no. Nobody said nothing to me. Only I got the idea that -- well Clay and me used to be walking through town and there was your place and through the window I could see you dancing, but Clay always took me over to the other side of the street.

Good night, Miss Wells.
Good night, Steve.

There's a nice boy.
Yeah.
That why you always took him on the other side of the street?

Like what?
Like sticking his nose into other people's business.

You can't stay here. There's snakes and it's cold and you'll just get sicker.
I don't care.
Suppose that Lednov was to have found you, instead of me. Why you wouldn't have had a chance.
I said I didn't care.
What's botherin' you, anyway?

Runnin' off and worryin' people. Makin' it tougher on Clay than it is already.
Don't ask me because I won't tell you! I won't tell anybody! Go away!
Don't act so -- crazy.
I'm sorry. Let's go.
That's a good girl.

Who shot who?
Nobody. The light was bad.

What's she doin' runnin' around the country at night.
I wouldn't know. Did you ask her?
All I can get out of her is she don't care about livin'.
Look of things, she doesn't.
Yeah. Keep a closer eye on her -- And him. Shootin' going on, we'll never find Lednov.

There was only three of them at first. I guess I lost my head.
How'd you happen to miss?
They were quite a ways off and the wind was blowin'. I didn't have them to aim.
Good thing you didn't.

A man can't help gettin' excited once in a while.
That's right, Steve.
Can I have my gun back?
Sure. You'll find it under the wagon seat. Like I said before, a twenty- two's more your size.

Gee, I can't.
Why not? You went farther than that last time.
I'm too old for it, Miss Wells... That's for little kids.
Don't be silly... Nobody's too old to learn.
Okay. A-B-C -- D-E-F -- G-H-I --

Get back to the horses. They're straggling.
He's learning his letters.
Yeah. While the horses wander all over the country.

Learnin' to read has nothing to do with the right or the wrong side of the street.
Are the horses stragglin' or aren't they?
They're stragglin'.
His letters will keep.

It's all right with me if she teaches you, but I don't want you forgettin' your job.
I won't again.

Okeh, I was wrong. But you can't expect a fellow who never saw Lednov and never heard his name until a while ago to do too much worryin'. You've been sorta close mouthed about him.
I guess I have. You were pretty little when they locked him up. I don't suppose you even remember that time I was gone two months.
Sure I remember. You went to Mexico lookin' for cattle.
You remember Jeff Rawson? -- We used to go fishing and hunting with him when you were so high.
Sure I do. Went off down to Mexico or something...
That's what I told you then. Only he didn't. Lednov killed him.
Oh... that's the time you went away.
I caught up with Lednov in Nogales. He didn't like the idea of comin' back across the border but he came. I turned him over to the sheriff and -- that's the story.
Maybe you shoulda killed him.
Maybe I should. But I was never much on killin'. Anyway, he moved too quick and I just got him through the shoulder. Looks pretty peaceful up ahead.
Yeah, it does.
But you never can tell. Why don't you get that new rifle out of the wagon?

But the nearest shelter's the Wyatt ranch and that's maybe five hours away.
Can we get a doctor at that ranch?
No, Ma'am, we can't. We can get a roof and a fire and maybe Mrs. Wyatt knows something about taking care of sick people.

Why, yes. They're all I need...
Mine's gone lame. Take a look at him.

He dropped a shoe. You shouldn't be ridin' him.
Put on another one.
That won't help the stone bruise. You ain't been around horses much, looks like.
Will you quit gabbin' and do what you're told.

What are you doin' --
Lookin' around.

We got to get movin'.
What for?
Because there's a man I want to see.
He can wait. Let's stay here until morning.

I said let's go.
One night more won't matter. Your friend'll be there. Anyway I don't think so much of the idea of prowling around his ranch. He knows you're out so he ain't going to sit still for it.
I said I had a guy to see and I'm going to see him.

You can light the lamp. I'm sure glad it's you. We were afraid those killers might come back.
Three men on matched roans?

Yeah, how did you know?
The whole state's lookin' for 'em. And they're lookin' for me.

You don't know how good it is to see you.
Maybe you won't feel that way after I tell you what I stopped in for.

Tell them to come on in.
But I'm going to have to leave 'em here. They're --- well they're not the sort of people you're used to.
It doesn't matter who they are.
And one of 'em is sick.
Why didn't you say so. Go right out and get her. Ed. build the fire up.

So that was why she tried to run away.
Didn't you know she had a father and mother out here?
I didn't know anything about her except she wanted a job because some man had left her stranded. I couldn't leave her in the street. Let's go.
Hold on.
We can't stay here!
It's a long walk back to Aspen.

I'm sorry about this, Mr. Wyatt. I didn't know who she was.
All right, you didn't know.
I can't take her with me.
Nobody asked you to.

You're not bein' quite fair.
What's there to be fair about?

I'm sorry about this, Mr. Wyatt. I didn't know you had a daughter.
All right, you didn't know.
I can't take her with me.
Nobody asked you to.

You're not bein' quite fair.
What's there to be fair about?

Aren't we stayin'?
No. We're not stayin' --

It isn't like this was the first place we were ever thrown out of.
That's not what's worryin' me. Why didn't she tell us? Maybe we could have done somethin' -- gone somewhere else -- puttin' a poor sick kid through this --
Quit worryin' about Elaine.

Coffee?
No, thanks. I hope we won't be a burden to them.
I hope so, too.

I'm sorry, but that's how it's got to be.
I suppose it is.
And it's not only because the trip's a tough one --

You don't have to explain. Did I tell you how grateful I am for what you've done?
I couldn't leave you sitting by the road.
You could have treated us like they did in Aspen. No. You wouldn't do a thing like that -- it isn't in you to be mean or cruel.

I hope you get everything you want out of life --
Thanks.
You've earned it -- the horse ranch on the Toulomoe -- the girl in the spotted gingham.
The who?
You should know. She's in your dream.

Ever since you've looked after Steve you've had the dream -- a ranch on the river -- good grass, good water, barn corral and house --- that part you've shared with Steve. The girl in gingham you plan sneakin' in when he isn't looking.
Go on. Tell me more about her.
She wears this gingham dress -- cooks popovers -- makes jam in season -- makes her own soap from pig fat and wood ashes and has cheeks the color of red apples.
I'll make the soap myself.
But the rest is right.
Will she be dark or fair?
Blonde as a new mop. And beautiful as the girl on a feed store calendar.

I tried my best, but these things take time.
And we're running out of that.
There's still tomorrow morning.

How long do you think we'll have to stay here?
Until Pa gets around to driving us to Minden.
We don't want to go there.
No we don't. But that's where we're going. From Minden we take a stage to Reno, then another one over to Auburn and another one to Placerville. Then it's a day's trip to Sonora.
Clay could save us an awful lot of time.
He certainly could. About a month.
What are you waiting for? Do something.

You're not giving up?
How many ways can a man say no.

Maybe I better start working on him.
You'd think he'd do it for Elaine's sake, at least...

Go on. Have another try at him.
What's the use.
Please. Maybe he'll take a good look at you and stop thinking so much about his horses.

Helen -- why don't you and Mary go on with Clay?
He won't take us. Don't you want us around?
Of course I do -- but it'd be better for you -- and the house is kind of small --
If you're worried about Mary and me talkin' too much, don't. No matter how many questions your old man asks. We know how to keep our mouths shut.
It isn't that --
Don't talk -- eat -- we want to get you well quick as we can so we can all get out of here.
But I want to stay.
Drink this and stop being silly. Why would anyone want to live in this place. You might as well be dead and buried. Nothing to do but look at mountains. In a week you'd be talking to yourself. Maybe that's what got you started in the first place.

I'm not going anywhere. I'm staying here where I belong.
Not if I know Mary. When she rides into Sonora, you'll be with her. And mighty glad to be there after this. I don't see how you stood it as long as you did.
Stop it -- stop it.
Darling -- now I've got you all upset.

Go away -- please.
That's right -- you go back to sleep. Tomorrow when you feel better things will look a whole lot different. Don't you worry about anything -- Mary's going to talk things over with your folks --

She mustn't -- don't you let her --
There, there. Don't you upset yourself --
If she says anything to them I'll kill her.

I can't --
You've got to -- don't you understand -- they want me with them and they'll fix it so I have to go --
No they won't.

What comes after Z?
That's the end of the line.
Then I know my alphabet.
From A to Z. All you have to do now is figure out what they mean put together in words.

And that's tough, isn't it?
Without someone to teach you, it's tough.

He knows his alphabet.
That's fine.

Leaving them here when we could just as well take them. We got plenty of room in the wagon. And -- and -- they cook and drive the mules. They don't bother anybody.
Finished, son?
There's only two of them now.

-- and even if I do learn to read, what use'll it be? I'm goin' to live on a ranch!
There's plenty of use for reading -- you'll see.

U-n-i-c-o-r-n-... What in heck's that?
Unicorn -- a kind of animal --
What do they look like?
Hmmm... sort of like a horse -- with a horn in the center of its forehead.
Horses with horns! Huh! Do we have 'em in Nevada?
No.
How about California?
Would they be good to eat?
Kind of tough, I guess... But you're not liable to hunt them -- I don't think there's any alive now, anyways -- and I'm not sure but I don't think there ever were...
Then if they wasn't alive, how can they be an animal?...

An' if you can't hunt 'em and even if you could they'd be tough, what's the use of knowin' how to spell them?
You don't read to fill your stomach... Poetry, for instance. All the poems in the world wouldn't fill you half as much as a bowl of eatmeal -- but they make you feel good.
I feel good anyways.

Don't go arguing with your teacher.
I'm not, but there's some of it I don't see any sense to.
There's a lot of things I don't see any sense to. But make up your mind. Learn to read or -- -- go back and watch the horses.

Well, Steve?
Now I know what a unicorn is, what do we do next?

Are we leaving?
It's too light yet.

Better go on back and get some more sleep. You'll need it later on.
You're not going out to look for them?
No, I'm not. All I want 'em to do is keep ahead of us -- a long way ahead. So I'm riding up the line aways to pick us out a new trail.

Nobody's gonna catch him sleeping. Don't worry about him.
Oh, I wasn't worrying. I saw him saddling up and thought he was ready to leave.

Sometimes not knowin' how to read has its points. You can't read books so you look at people and figure 'em out.
And you've got me all figured out?
Sure.

Like when you were standin' there looking after Clay. I knew right off what you were thinking. Because I've been watching you.
You were supposed to be reading words.
I was doin' both. Here.

Don't pay any attention to him. That's his way and I've found he's sure easy to get along with. I don't recollect him havin' hit me more'n a couple of times and I guess I had it comin'.
But you're his brother.
He'll treat his wife just as good. Maybe better. Ever see him use a bull snake on the mules like other wranglers?

She was only teasin'.
Oh, sure.
Let me do that.

Don't you trust me?
Not on this trail, I don't. I've been over it before. Anyway, you ought to be pretty sleepy. Why don't you climb in back.

Why did you change your mind about bringing us along?
Why do you think?
I don't know. I thought I did. Now I'm not sure. I thought it had something to do with me.
Oh, it did. It had a great deal to do with you.

You know so much about me -- figure it out.
So that's it -- You think I was making fun of your girl in gingham.

You wouldn't do a thing like that, would you?
Yes. But -- that was the other night. Now -- I don't think I would.

We might as well start a fire.
Go ahead. Get in training for the pioneer life. I'm finding the nearest body of water and climbing into it.

Want the wagon unloaded, Clay?
Just the grub box and bed rolls.

You got no business snoopin' around --
Me snoopin'? I came down here to take a bath.

That something I shouldn't see?
No. But it's mine and I didn't want anyone foolin' with it.

What is it?
Just a thing I was workin' on.
The way you act, it must be something pretty secret.

Go on. Take your bath. I'll beat it.
You wouldn't have a smoke on you, would you?

That sure smells good.
I like it.
Up here in the hills, a man gets a hankering to smell powder.
Then why stay in the hills.

You should have. I don't like leaving things unfinished.
Maybe it's better that way.
You don't mean that Clay.

Tell me, darling.
What?
What does a man usually tell a girl?

What did you expect? Speeches I don't mean?
I don't expect anything. A minute ago I hadn't cuite waked up.

I'm awake now. Go on. Say what you want to say. I'll listen.
If it's pretty speeches you want, you won't be hearing them. Even when I mean 'em, they don't come easy.
Save 'em for the girl in gingham. Just tell me I'm not good enough for you. Go on. Say a woman like me can't change.
All right -- it's said!
Then let's get started. The sooner I get to Sonora, the better I'll like it.

You're sure there's more where this came from?
Plenty more. And somewhere up there's the lode, the rock rotten with it.

Give it back to him. We're leavin'.
Maybe you are. I'm not.

I figure we'll get along just fine.
Well cheer, why don't you? No more responsibilities, Mary. Marcia -- Elaine -- me -- all taken care of. Down there feeding horses and raising kids, you won't have a thing to worry about.

-- Gaslights and a dance floor and a big bar. Cash registers with bells and a couple of boys with armbands just to keep 'em ringing. What do you think of that?
Sounds fine. Only that isn't how it's going to be.

I'm sure of this. But not of you. You won't open any joint. I've been watching you change. You're mad now and you think you can change back. But you can't. You'll end up making beds in a boarding house.
That's it then.

Mary, Honey. I talked too much, like always -- he thinks you told Elaine the things I told her.
I don't care what he thinks.

No, I'm not all right. I'm soaked and I hit myself against that rock.
I suppose that's my fault.

All my clothes --
That's right -- worry about your clothes --

Go on, take it. Then you can't spend the rest of the trip expecting to get paid.
There won't be any rest of the trip. Over the hill is a stage road and when we hit it you get dumped into the first stage that comes along. So keep your money. You'll need it for the fare. I'm fed up with you. I was fed up with you before we started.

We got company. Female company.
Yeah, we sure have.

I saw your fire and dropped by to say hello.
Well, say it.

What's the matter -- restless?
Yes, people make me restless.
Even women?
There aren't any women here.
I suppose that's your wagon in the river.
Some people who went by this way lost it. Two men and some women. They packed their stuff on horses and went on.
And you're all alone.
Yeah.

Suppose I take a look.
Go ahead.

When I ask questions, I like to hear answers.
They went on like I told you.

How do you know who we are?
Everybody knows --
Who brought you here?

You said somebody was comin' back -- who's comin' back?
Stop it --

Clay Phillips.
Where is he?
Up the trail.

How far up the trail?
I don't know -- I don't know.

For the last ten miles I've been trying to figure out how to sleep sitting up. I'm getting to the point where I don't think there's any place named Sonora.
It's a long ways yet. I figure we ought to camp. She's tired.

So grab yourself some sleep while you have the chance.
If you want to go on, I can make it all right.
Like I said, I was thinkin' of the horses.

You stretch out. I'll fix something to eat.
Thanks, Steve.

I didn't stop to think, Clay.
You better start.

All right, I hurt your feelings. But you know better than to go lightin' fires.
That ain't why. I just figure it's about time to start runnin' my own life.

Come on. We got a couple hours to eat and get some sleep.
I'll eat when I'm good and ready.
Kind of feeling your oats this morning. I haven't laid a hand on you for quite a while, but that doesn't mean you're too old.
What makes you think you're so almighty? Telling people what to do and how to act when you don't even know how yourself.

Go on, hit me.
Sit down and eat. Till I say the word, you're doing what you're told.
You oughta say you're sorry -- that's what you oughta do.
You keep your nose out of my life, young fella.
Maybe I haven't lived as long as you have, but I know a sight more about people and I wouldn't talk to a mule like you talked to her and, if I did, I'd say how sorry I was. I'd be man enough to do that.

I said keep your nose out of my life. No kid is going to tell me how to run it.
You think you're so slmighty -- smart -- Who are you to sit up there and say nobody's good enough for you, like you said yesterday -- just because a man kisses a woman --

I won't have you fighting over me.
I'm sorry.

You don't know what it is to be sorry.
Steve --

Maybe it isn't going to Sonora, but it's going somewhere, which is all right with me.
It's going to Sonora.
Fine -- maybe I'll see you there sometime.

Some of 'em you didn't mean but most of 'em you did. I don't blame you because I understand your way of thinking and why you think that way. You want your women on pedestals. But they have to be born on 'em -- they can fall off but they can't climb back up.
I can't help how I think. You're trained a certain way when you're a kid and you can't change.

I can't change either. Not unless somebody wants me enough to give me a hand.
Hurry up.

I'm fool enough to believe that one of these days somebody will. Somebody who wants me as I am will maybe walk into the place where I'm working and take me out of there.
Maybe they will.

Goodbye. Thanks for the lift.
Goodbye, Mary.
By the way, if you ever go past the Wyatt ranch, have another talk with Elaine.

You know what she asked me?
I don't care what she asked you.
She told me not to fight with you anymore. She said it wasn't your fault, but -- I figure different...

It is so your fault and... and I guess maybe when we hit the ranch... you andme better...
You want to split up? --

Half of them are mine.
You'll get your share. Go on. I don't want you around.

What did you come back for?
Like I told you, half those horses are mine. I'm makin' sure they get to the ranch safe. So let's quit arguing and do whatever you figure on doin'.

Is that the only reason you came back?
Sure. What other reason would there be?
I just wondered. Let's go.

How's that?
Kind of sore.
You'll live.
Guess maybe I'm old enough to hold my own in a fight, huh?
Yeah -- but don't make a habit of it.
So -- maybe I'm old enough to tell you how to run your life?
I guess so -- but don't make a habit of it.
Well, then, I know it takes three -- four weeks for you to come round to admit when you're wrong... But by that time she's liable to be in China...

Thanks for taking over.
Thanks for loading me on the stage. I know now why you did it.
Like I said, women get in the way sometimes.

Goodnight.
Goodnight, Miss Wells.
If you need me, I'll be --

Where you going?
To the other side of the street.

That job you were talkin' about, did you get it yet?
Why?
Because... well, you said you wanted a man to think enough of you to walk in the place you were working and take you out of there... tonight I was sort of tied up with Steve... but tomorrow I figured on doing just that.
I haven't got the job yet.
<|endoftext|>
