He'll not leave the grave -- not since Wednesday last when we buried the lad.
Your son, ma'am? He must have been a fine boy for the wee dog to love him so.

Not much danger here, ma'am, I wouldn't think -- right here in the heart of Edinburgh.
They're uncommon bold, the grave robbers -- and the daft doctors who drive them on.
I'm by way of being a medical myself.
A doctor?
A student. I'm studying under Dr. MacFarlane -- that is, I've been studying until today --

Was the paralysis immediate?
No, Doctor. She seemed to get better, then about six months later she began to complain of pain in her back --
How long after that was the paralysis complete?
Nearly a year.
Any attacks of pain since?
Yes, Doctor.
Is her pain sporadic or constant?
It comes at intervals. They used to be months apart -- but they've been growing more frequent -- much more frequent.
See here, child, when you have this pain in your back, where is it?

Excuse me, Dr. MacFarlane --
Come in, boy -- come in.

But, Doctor, I only wanted to speak to you --
Come -- it's a chance to try out your bedside manner, Fettes. Take a look at the child.

Are you a doctor, too?
Not yet.
You'll be a good doctor. I know all about doctors.

What you really want to ask me is about my back, isn't it -- about where it hurts?
Why, yes.
Well --

Child seems to take to the lad. What sort of an accident was it, Ma'am?
A carriage overturned. My husband was killed and Georgina was hurt.
How long ago?
Three years.

Dr. MacFarlane --
Excuse me.

But can anything be done for her?
Perhaps -- a delicate operation -- an operation which has never been performed -- but it could be performed. I'm sure it could be -- I could incise the columna dorsi --

Believe me, Madame, if I were only a doctor, I would undertake this operation at once. But I'm more dominie than doctor -- I've a school to run.
But, Doctor, surely in a case like this -- a child -- a little child who can never walk or run --
I regret it, Ma'am, but I have the responsibility of training thirty other doctors to attend a thousand children like your own.
There's nothing I can say for one small child?
I'm not heartless, Ma'am. I have every sympathy for you and for the little girl, but if I were to consent to every operation brought to me, I'd have no time for teaching -- and that's a great responsibility upon me, Ma'am -- a great responsibility.

I'm afraid I'll have to give up medicine, Dr. MacFarlane.
You're made for a doctor, young man!
I'm afraid I have to, sir. You see, my father is vicar at Thrums -- it's a small parish -- not much of a living --
You're too good a man, Fettes -- I'll not let you quit. I'll make an assistant of you -- that'll pay your keep and your tuition, too --
I thought only the best students were made assistants.
Well? And are you not a good student?
But Richardson?
Richardson is a fine student. He's got a glib tongue, but you'll be a better doctor, Fettes. Come along now --

And why not? He's a good lad -- bright and able.
Aye. He's a good lad. That's why I ask you, MacFarlane.
You think it'll spoil the boy, eh? Was I not assistant to Knox?
Aye --
Did it spoil me, Meg, my lass?

You know how we get the specimens we use for dissection?
From the Municipal Council -- they're the bodies of paupers --

I'm Donald Fettes.
I'm very pleased to know you, Master Fettes.
Mr. Gray?
That's right. Gray, the cabman. I've had a bit of dealing with MacFarlane in the past, you know.

Dr. MacFarlane said I should pay you --
Of course -- it's the soul of the business -- the pay --

You asked to see me, ma'am?
I want you to help my little girl.
I'm only a student.
Georgina told me how kind you were to her. It gave me hope you might intercede for us with Dr. MacFarlane.
I don't know that I can do that, Mrs. Marsh.
Did he tell you about Georgina?

I didn't mean it that way. I meant only that I am not in a position to ask favors.
Ask this one favor --
Of course I will.

I don't think I can go on, sir.
What the devil do you mean? You have your lodgings, a certain stipend -- I thought I had arranged everything for you --
I saw the woman whose son's body was delivered last night.

And that's why you don't want to be a doctor, Fettes?
Not if I have to be party to things like that, Dr. MacFarlane.

But this woman -- and her son --
I'm sorry for the woman, Fettes. But her son might be alive today had more doctors been given the opportunity to work on more human specimens. As for me, Fettes, I let no man stop me when I know I'm right -- when I know that I need those lifeless subjects for my student's enlightenment and for my own knowledge. And if you're a real man and want to be a good doctor, you'll see it as I see it.

Come, Toddy -- come. Sit down here with me.
Don't call me that confounded name.
Well, then, Doctor MacFarlane -- although I've known a time, Toddy, when you liked the name. Aye, and many are dead now who called you by it; rough and wild ones they were, too. But come Toddy, sit down here with your young friend.

Mr. Fettes and I have professional matters to discuss.
Medicine? That'll keep. Sit down.

I will not have you use that name to me.
You will not have it?

Dr. MacFarlane -- you remember the lady who came to see you yesterday -- the lady with the little girl?
I remember her.
She came again today. She wanted me to ask you if you would not break your rule and operate. She feels you are her only hope.
So she told me. I'm a teacher -- not a practitioner.

You're a teacher, eh? Maybe you're afraid to be a doctor, Toddy.
Afraid of what?
Afraid you are not as good a doctor perhaps as you make out to be.
I am the best man for the job.
Why don't you do it then?

You? Why? Since when have you become the protector of little children?
I'm not concerned about the child, Toddy. It's you I'm thinking of, I'd like to see you prove that a lot of things I know haven't hurt Toddy MacFarlane any.
I'll not do it, Gray.
Oh, yes, you will. You'll do it to oblige Fettes and myself.
No.
Maybe there's some private reason between you and me which will make you -- some long lost friend of ours. Say that you'll do it for me and my friend, Mr. Fettes, here.

It might be an interesting case.
That's a good boy, Toddy.

Toddy hates me.
Don't call me that confounded name, I tell you.
Hear him? Did you ever see the lads play knife?

You have his promise, then?
Yes.

-- pain -- and shock. She's brave enough, but I don't know about myself. Now that it seems so close, I wonder if I dare trust my child into any but God's hands. Maybe He knows best.
Ma'am, is you'll allow me, I'd like to give you cause for courage -- Dr. MacFarlane is a great man -- I think he's the greatest man in medicine. God would not have given him such gifts if they were not meant for Georgina's cure.

Hear him?
The white horse. The horse that is going to greet me when he sees me.
An old acquaintance, eh?

Why do you want the white horse to bid you "good-day"?
He was a nice horse.
Maybe there's another reason. Maybe you haven't friends enough. Could that be it, Georgina?

Of course -- I don't have friends. That's because I can't walk. I try to make myself used to it.
One shouldn't get used to the wrong things, Georgina. You want to walk and run and play.

Aye, but I still wonder how much.
I want it --
But you'll have to stand great pain, Georgina. Greater pain than you ever dreamed of in the worst time of your sickness. Do you want it that much?

You're daft. What's Gray to me. He's only a man from whom I buy what I need when I need it -- the rest is forgotten.
You may deny the devil, Toddy, but you'll not rid yourself of him by saying the devil is dead.
Nonsense. You're a fey creature with mad ideas. But you have a wildness that holds me to you, lass.
No great lady will ever take my place?

It was about last night I wanted to talk to you -- about the operation on the little Marsh girl.
You're a man of the world, Fettes, you wouldn't hold me to promise given in drink.
But I -- well, you see, sir, I met Mrs. Marsh and told her.
Really, Fettes, you irk me with your lack of understanding.
But you did promise.
Look here, Fettes. Not I nor anyone else knows enough about the spinal column and its intricacies to insure success in such an operation. I would have to study the matter. Have we any "subjects"?
Wilmont used up the last spinal section.
You see, it is completely out of the question.
Yes, I suppose so.
Now you run off and see that pretty Mrs. Marsh and explain to her.

I fear he may have to.
But can't you give me any idea?
How could I? I will do my best. After all, you see, I am financially interested.

There, Master Fettes. Sooner than we had expected. A stoke of luck one might say.
Good.

Every street singer with a cracked voice gives tongue to that one.
This girl was beautiful -- a wild lassie from the Highlands.

Well --
Gray killed her.
We can't be sure of that.
I am sure. I mean to report it. It's like Burke and Hare all over again.

I wouldn't do that, Fettes. I wouldn't report it.
Grave robbing is one thing -- this is murder.

I don't know that -- neither do you. This subject may have been an epileptic -- thrown a fit -- fallen out of bed -- cracked her skull and killed herself -- there is everything explained -- the bruise on her head --
I can't believe that.
Believe it or not. It's best for you to pretend that you do. After all, it was you who ordered this specimen, received it here, and paid for it. That makes you a party to murder.

But, I didn't ask him to kill.
Who would believe that? And you know, someone else might recognize her. She was as well known as the Castle Rock.

Here is where you must watch closely, gentleman -- closely -- it is the very heart of the matter --
Wait, Doctor -- wait! The child's fainting.

She's unconscious.
Pulse?

Now that wasn't a friendly thing I heard, Toddy. Not at all friendly.
That has nothing to do with it. We've decided to do more lecturing and less dissection -- it's better for the students -- that's all there is to it.
You know what you want and don't want -- so that's an end of business between us -- but we'll still be friends, Toddy. I'll be dropping by to see you and Meg once in a while -- for auld lang syne, you know.
I suppose we can't prevent that, Gray -- -- for auld lang syne.

I presume you shall. This won't be my last visit here.
I want to speak to you alone. I saw something. I heard.
What did you hear?
I know --

Oh, you'll have ample opportunity -- ample -- Good morning, Dr. Fettes.
Good morning.

I just saw Gray. What was he laughing at?
He has his own idea of a joke. Perhaps his horse tickled him in the ribs.
I've just been to see Mrs. Marsh. Georgina is doing splendidly. The incision has healed -- clean and fine -- but she doesn't seem to have any desire to walk.
When she's ready you bring her to me -- I'll show her how.
Dr. MacFarlane, I wonder if you know what happiness you've brought those people.
That's only our duty, Fettes -- that's the end at which we aim with all this nasty business.

I suppose one must pass through this purgatory to the heaven of being a good doctor.
That's the way of it, Fettes. You bring the lassie to me.

Don't you want to find the white horse, Georgina? You can't find him from a wheelchair. You have to walk and run to find him.
I can't.

You can't -- can't! Stop trying to bribe her with childishness about white horses. Let the child stand and walk -- her spine's all right. I know it's all right.
But she must want to stand. She must want to walk.
Confound me, the child's a cripple, of course she wants to walk. Child, I say to you get up out of that chair and walk.

I'm sorry, Doctor. Georgina's a good child -- a brave child -- you saw how she was during the operation -- but if she can't move, she can't move.
But she must be able to move. Everything is in place.
She would if she could.
Then all my surgery is no good. There's something wrong with the child -- something I don't know -- something I can't define -- can't diagnose. I can do nothing for her.

Oh, it's you, Gray. Well, come in. Sit down. Have a glass with me.
You're uncommon friendly tonight, Toddy. More like the old days.

You know something about the human body, Gray.
I've had some experience.
Then you can understand that the backbone is a lot of little blocks and those little blocks are all held together, so that it works like that whip of yours. You know that, don't you?
I've never had it all explained that way to me by so learned a man.
I set those blocks together, patched the muscles. I put the nerves where they should be -- I did it and I did it right -- and she won't walk --
Oh, it's the bit of a girl Fettes was talking about.
The same. Look here, Gray --

You can't build life like you put together blocks, Toddy.
What are you talking about? I am an anatomist. I know the body. I know how it works.
And you're a fool, Toddy -- and no doctor. It's only the dead ones that you know.
I am a doctor. I teach medicine.
Like Knox taught you? Like I taught you? In cellars and graveyards? Did Knox teach you what makes the blood flow?
The heart pumps it.
Did he tell you how thoughts come and how they go and why things are remembered and forgot?
The nerve centers -- the brain --
But what makes a thought start?
In the brain, I tell you. I know.
You don't know and you'll never know or understand, Toddy. Not from me or from Knox would you learn those things. Look --

I am a doctor - a good doctor. I could make her walk, but she won't - she won't --
Here, have another glass, MacFarlane. I'll take you home and we'll be friends again -- now that you know that you're Knox's man and my friend -- aye, forever.

Why should I be afraid of you? What are you holding over me?
I'll tell you what, Toddy. It's because I ran down the streets with the mud and the stones around my ears and the mob yelling for my blood. It's because you were afraid to face it -- and you're still afraid.
No, I'm not afraid. Tell! Shout it from the housetops! And remember this -- they hanged Burke -- they mobbed Hare -- but Dr. Knox is living like a gentleman in London.

Aye, Toddy, there is something in what you say.
There is much in what I say, Gray, and if you have any regard for your neck you'll leave now and stay away from my house, my school, and from me.
I have no wish for a rope cravat. I've never liked the smell of hemp, so I'll bid you good night, Doctor MacFarlane.

You're welcome to my little nest, Joseph -- is it not? That's right -- you have something to say to me -- something very private.
Yes.
Now that is very interesting -- Take a chair, Joseph,

Can anyone hear what we say?
Only Brother.
I know that you kill people to sell bodies.

You say you've come here on your own account? No one knows you are here?
Give me money or I'll tell the police you murder the "subjects."

I have made you give me money, but you smile. Aren't you angry?
No, Joseph. I'm not angry -- here -- another glass of brandy --I'll wager it's better than the doctor's.

You and I should work together.
You mean we would sell the bodies to the doctors together? Dig them up?
No digging Joseph. The churchyards are too well guarded. We will "Burke" them,
Burke them?
You are lately come to Scotland, Joseph?
I come from Lisbon.
But still you may have heard the peddlers of verse cry out their names on the streets.

"The ruffian dogs, the Hellish pair. The villain Burke, the meager Hare --"
I never heard that song. But what did they do?
Eighteen persons they killed and sold the bodies to Dr. Knox at ten pounds for a large and eight pounds for a small. That's good business, Joseph.

But where did they get those people?
That was Hare's end. Ah, you should have seen him on the streets, when he saw some old beldam deep in drink how he cozened her!

"A good-day to you Madame Tosspot, and would you like a little glass of something before you take your rest? Come with me to my house and I'll make you my guest. You shall have quarts to drink if you like." Ah, how he cozened them.
We could do that. But when he had them there, then what?
"Nor did they handle axe or knife To take away their victim's life -- No sooner done than in a chest They crammed their lately welcome guest."

I don't understand the song. Tell me plain how they did it.
I'll show you how it was done, Joseph. -- I'll show you how they "Burked" them.

What are you going here? Have I not told you --
Would you grudge me a glass with my old crony, Meg?

Crony indeed!
You can get out.

I brought you something tonight, MacFarlane -- an interesting specimen -- in very good condition.
I've ordered nothing from you.
This is a gift.
I take no gifts from you.
This is a gift you'll not return.
Get out of here!
Wait, Toddy. That's not hospitable. I want to discuss business.
You are not to set foot in here again, Gray, for business or any other reason. And you're going out now!

Fettes -- where is Fettes?
I'll get him.

Fettes, the more things are wrong, the more we must act as if everything were right. You must do with Joseph as you did with, the street singer -- complete dissection -- a proper entry in the book --
No.
What do you mean, Fettes?
I'll have no more to do with it. I'll not put my neck into the noose, not even for your sake, Dr. MacFarlane.
Don't be a fool. One can't begin and then stop -- and because that entry of the girl's body is in your hand, you'll do as I say. As for me, I'll tend to Gray.

You're not going to Gray.
He must leave me alone.

You must leave this house.
I can't do that -- you heard MacFarlane.
Save yourself. Master Fettes look at MacFarlane and be warned.
He's a great doctor -- a great man --
Is it a great man whom Gray can order to his bidding? Is it a great man who for very shame dare not acknowledge his own wife so that I must play maidservant for the world's sake and his success?

He could have been a great man -- a good man and a fine doctor, but there was always the shame of the old life and the old ways to hold him back -- and always Gray -- Gray to hound him to his death.
You're over-excited, Mistress Cameron.
I'm cold as ice.
But Gray's only a cab driver -- a Resurrection Man who robs graves to make a bit of money now and again.
If he were only that. The man's evil himself. Some day you'll know him as MacFarlane knows him -- for MacFarlane he was to Knox as you are to him. That brought him close to Gray, he roistered with him and drank with him. Aye, and Gray even brought him to my door and my love. There is all that between them and more -- Burke and Hare and Knox --
But that's long since. Gray can't threaten him with that.
Gray has no need to threaten. You remember the trial?
I heard my parents speak of it in Thrums. It was a famous case.
And did you hear them speak of the porter who testified against Burke?
Aye.
They did not tell you how that porter cried out in the witness box when the Kings Counselor pressed him hard -- how he cried out that he was shielding a gentleman of consequence.

That porter was Gray and the gentleman of consequence who couldn't swallow the shame of it -- who took my last paltry savings to hire Gray --
MacFarlane

Listen to me, Fettes, I'm one part befuddled with drink, one part over-heels in love with MacFarlane, and one part fey. You're a lowlander, Fettes, and you have no way of knowing what we Highlanders call the second sight.
I've heard of it.
It's a gift to my people -- and I see MacFarlane and Gray-- the pit yawns for them and the flames -- and I would have you away from them and safe out of the torment.--

Gray, I must rid myself of you -- you've become a cancer -- a malignant, evil cancer -- rotting my mind.
So, Toddy, you've made me a disease, eh?
I can't understand your hurt to me -- but I must cut you out.

Surely you are not threatening an old friend, Toddy.
We have never been friends.

Have another glass of something good, Toddy.
I've drunk enough tonight.
Another little drop'll never do you any harm.

You're getting old, Gray, and it's a hard life driving a cab through these wet and windy streets of Edinburgh --
I have other means of sustenance.
The Resurrection business? That may end sooner than you think. New laws may come.

What I was going to say is this -- wouldn't you be more comfortable at Leith in a neat little house?
Would you bribe me to leave you be?
I would make you rich.
It wouldn't be half so much fun for me. Toddy, as to have you come here and beg --
Beg -- beg of you! You crawling graveyard rat!

Well then -- I beg you -- I beseech you --
But then I wouldn't have the fun of having you come here and beg again, Toddy.

But why, Gray? Why?
Because it would be a hurt to me to see you no more, Toddy. You're a pleasure to me.
A pleasure to torment me?
No -- a pride to know that I can force you to my will. I'm a small man -- a humble man -- and being poor, I've had to do much that I did not want to do. But so long as the great Dr. MacFarlane jumps at my whistle, that long am I a man -- and if I have not that, I have nothing. Then I am only a cabman and a grave-robber.

You've been with Gray again.
Aye.

Good morning, Mrs. Marsh.
Good morning, Mr. Fettes.

I thought this was a school day.
I am not at the school anymore. I left last night.

It's not because of Georgina -- because of Dr. MacFarlane's failure?
It's not the failure. I feel that MacFarlane has taught me nothing. He taught me the mathematics of anatomy but he couldn't teach me the poetry of medicine.

Even so, I could never think of going on -- I've got to find some other profession.
It is a pity.

You'll not need that again, Georgina.
I wanted to see the white horse --

He's not home.
Where can I find him?
You don't went to find him. Your news will keep until I tell him.
But I must tell him -- he must know of it. Please -- tell me where he is.
There's no standing between a fool and his folly. If you must babble your news to him he's at the Fisherman's Tryst. It's the inn at Pennycuik. You can use MacFarlane's horse and gig to get there. He'll welcome the ride back.
At Pennycuik. I know the inn. I can be there in an hour.
And back with MacFarlane and all that he stands for the next day.

What's that you say?
The little girl -- she couldn't walk far -- the muscles are too weak -- but she did stand and she took a step or two.
I know it -- I know it -- The moment I was rid of him --
What?
Gray -- I'm rid of him --

See that, Fettes?
A burial party -- poor people -- it's hard to bury a loved one on a rainy day when the churchyard is so cold and lonely.
Glencorse -- that's a lonely cemetery, Fettes, not a soul around for miles.
They'll be thinking of that, too.
Tosh! Fettes! It's not their grief I'm worrying about -- I'm talking of our own end --
You've no thought of going there?
Did you think Gray was the only one who could handle a mattock and shovel? I've had some practice in the art.
You couldn't do that, Doctor.
I pass up no opportunities, I've a whole course of lectures in mind for you fellows. We'll need subjects to demonstrate. Come along.
No.
Why not? I must have subjects. It's the only way I can teach. It's the only way you can learn. The stupidity of the people the idiocy of their laws will not stop no -- nor will they force me to deal with such reptilian creatures as Gray. We can do our own dirty work -- and we must.

Where shall we put it? In the back?
No room there. We'll have to set it between us.

This is not a woman!
It was a woman when we put her in.
Hold that lamp up -- I must see her face.
<|endoftext|>
