That probably dropped half way to Pomona!...What do you think?
It was nearer than that.

Number three to. D.O....Number three to D.O.
D.O. to number three..come in.
We're getting this under control. Won't need any more help. Over.
Okay. Send the tanker in, but you stand by until that thing cools off. Over.
I think somebody ought to check on it. Over.
Well, there's some fellows fishing at Pine Summit might be interested. They probably saw it come down. I'll let 'em know...What's it look like?

I got a message for you. You're the guys from Pacific-Tech, ain't you?
Right.
Looks like the fishing was good.

It's about that meteor. They say it's a whopper. The District Officer phoned us at the lookout up on the summit. Thought you might be interested... It's ten or twelve miles from here - over by Linda Rosa.
Are they sure it's a meteor? It didn't come down like one.
That's right - came down in kinda spurts, didn't it? You fellers'll have to figure it out. You're scientists All I know - they say it's as big as a house and practically red hot.
I'd like to borrow your car and take a look at it in the morning.

Better'n a lion farm or a snake pit. We won't have to feed it!
We sell the tamales, enchiladas - hot dogs!

Is that it over there?
Yes...ugly looking, isn't it.

Did you see it come down?
Yes...I was fishing up in the hills.
You must have caught plenty with all that tackle!
Oh - there were three of us. The others flew back in my plane. I don't understand why a meteor this size didn't make a bigger crater.
It hit sideways and skidded in.

What's that fellow over there trying to do - dig it out?
He's top man in astro and nuclear physics. He knows all about meteors!

You seem to know a lot about him.
Well, I did a thesis on modern scien- tists - working for my Masters degree.
Did it do you any good?
Why, sure -- I got it! Do you have a match?
I'm sorry. I don't smoke.
Forrester's the man behind the new atomic engines. They had him on the cover of 'Time'. You've got to rate to get that!
Aw, he isn't that good...!
How can you say that when you don't know him!

I do know him...slightly.
What's he like?
Like...ah...

Well, you certainly don't look like yourself in that get-up! But I am happy to meet you anyway. I'm Sylvia Van Buren. I teach Library Science over at USC.
I didn't know how to stop you...!
I might have recognized you without the beard. And you didn't wear glasses on the 'Time' cover!
They're really for long distance. When I want to look at something close... I take them off.

Uncle Matthew...this is Dr. Clayton Forrester. My uncle - Dr. Matthew Collins, pastor of the Community Church.
Well-l...how do you do, Dr. Forrester!

They don't do much of anything...!
There's a square dance at the social hall this evening.

Looks almost cold now, don't it?
That won't start no more fires. We might's well go home.
Yeah. No sense stayin' out here.
Let's go.

It's an enemy sneak attack. Let's get outta here!
Wait a minute - wait a minute!.... Bombs don't unscrew.
It's no meteor, that's for sure!
Darnedest thing I ever saw - the way that's unscrewing!

Must be somebody in there.
Who? Where d'you think they come from!
How would I know...!

Maybe these are not men - not like us.
Everything human don't have to look like you and me....

We'd be the first to make contact with 'em -- see?
We'd be in all the papers!
Hey, how about that!
We could show 'em we're friendly, huh? Walk out there with a white flag! Here - I got an old sugar sack in my car!

What'll we say to 'em?
Welcome to California!

They'll understand us, all right!
Sure, sure! Everybody understands you wave the white flag, you wanna be friends.

Hey, there - open up!
Come on out! We're friends!

They've all stopped at the same time.
There's only about one explanation for a thing like this..Got a pin?

That's what knocked the phones out, too.
How could it happen to everybody's watch together?
Have you got a pocket compass?

That needle ain't pointing north!
It's pointing out to the gully - where that meteor came down.

How does it happen cars are running?
Automobile ignitions are insulated.

What is that gizmo?!
I think that - gizmo - is a machine from another planet.
We better get word to the authorities and -- Look!

The troops are certainly moving in here!
Didn't you have something to do with this? I know you sent word to the Sixth Army Command!
I just told them the local situation. Colonel Heffner's in full charge now.
You never know where you're going to wind up when you go to a square dance!

There's one - there's the other, and we're right between them!
So is the town, I notice!
I warned you Civil Defense people to be ready if you have to evacuate.
I just came to tell you - everyone has been alerted.

General Mann -- I was told to expect you, sir. I'm Colonel Heffner.
I'm here to make up a report, not to interfere with the operations you've set up. You're still in command. Clayton Forrester! I haven't seen you since Oak Ridge.

Good to see you, General. This is Pastor Collins, director of Civil Defense. Sheriff Bogany, head of the local forces ... Miss Van Buren.
Would you like some coffee, General?

That's their position? You've certainly got them surrounded. I suppose they've neutralized all communications here.
Not all. Radio is out. But our field phones are okay so far.
And they'll go out the minute there's another ray. A cylinder reported down by Huntington Beach. That's a job for the Navy.

We will, sir!
From the data - and from that picture the Air Force took earlier tonight ... ... what we've got in the gully out there is a guide ship. One lands ... Others follow later. They appear to clear an area, then drop in groups of threes, joined magnetically. Is that possible?

My orders are not to go into action unless they make a move out of there.
That's because we want a chance to observe them. This is the only place we've had time to surround them with sufficient force to contain them. What happens here will be a guide to all other operations. The minute action begins and a pattern of defense develops, I'll get my report to Washington. You've deployed your forces well.
Thank you, sir. If they start anything, we can blast them right off the earth!
They'll probably move at dawn.

Colonel - shooting's no good!
It's always been a good persuader.
Couldn't you try to communicate with them first - and shoot later if you have to?

They are living creatures out there.
But they're not human! Dr. Forrester says they're some kind of an advanced civilization --
If they're more advanced than us, they should be nearer the Creator for that reason!

Let's go back inside, Uncle Matthew.
I've done about all I can do here. You go back in. Sylvia - I like that Doctor Forrester. He's a good man.

We can't go into town - everybody's getting out of there! I'll fly you over to Pasadena.
Can you handle one of these?
Sure...get in!

You'll hit something! Can't you go higher?
No. The air's going to be full of Jets in a minute...And there they are!

I never noticed before - that's a cowboy tie....
I bought it for the square dance. I thought I ought to wear some- thing Western.

Is that... machine...?
It's gone now.
Where are we?
Southwest of Corona, somewhere. There must have been another cylinder down here. They've been through this whole area and cleared everybody out. There's a farmhouse. Let's see if we can find something to eat...!

I almost forget when I ate last. It looks so good.... You know, mostly I get my meals in coffee shops and restaurants.
Don't you live at home?
No, on the campus. I haven't any family.
I come from a big one. Nine of us. All in Minnesota, except me.
I have no close folks. My parents died when I was a kid.

A big family must be fun...I imagine it makes you feel you belong to something.
It does...Maybe that's why I feel kind of lost right now.
We'll get safely out of here, don't worry.
But they seem to murder everything that moves...!
If they're mortal, they must have mortal weaknesses. They'll be stopped -- somehow!

I've been as close to them as anyone. But not close enough for real observation...
I feel like I did one time when I was small. Awful scared and lonesome...I'd wandered off - I've forgotten why - but the family and whole crowds of neighbors were hunting for me. They found me in a church. I was afraid to go in any place else.

I stayed right by the door - praying for the one who loved me best to come and find me. It was Uncle Matthew who found me.
I liked him.

He liked you ... I could bawl my head off!
But you're not going to. You're not the kind. You're tired, anyway. You've been up all night. You cracked up in a plane. Slept in a ditch. But you want to know something? It doesn't show on you at all.

How long was I out?
Hours. I've been so scared...!

Nothing there now.
It was... ...one of them!
What was it like?
I couldn't see much in the dark - but it was one!
We're right in a nest of 'em! ... I've got to get a look at them.

Maybe they aren't too sure we're here.
They could be as curious about us as we are about them.
Maybe ... Maybe they want to take us alive.

They've blocked it!
It's blocked here, too! They've pushed up earth or something all around outside. Here, this way...!

That explains why communication is cut the moment their machines begin to move.
Madrid has just blacked out!! Nothing more coming through.
The same thing that happened on our Pacific Coast. Anything from them yet?

Mister Secretary - if they link up with those others near Fresno...
All right - I've seen enough!

There's only one thing that will stop the Martians! We've held back pre- viously because of the danger of radiation to civilians. Now there's no choice. The United Nations has voted authority to the United States. The White House will confirm an order to use the Atom bomb.
Then our first target will be the initial landing place outside Los Angeles.
I'll request the scientists from Pacific-Tech to monitor the drop. We'll clear the area all around. After that we'll hit them all over the world. I'll have long-range bombers alerted, loaded and standing by.

This Martian blood... Let's make a quick analysis and see what we've got!
It might give us something.

Is it possible to go in right after the explosion?
Yes, with these suits. We've used them before on atomic tests... Odd- looking, aren't they?
Very futuristic. Yours doesn't really go with that butch haircut!
I could wear it longer -- but it's less trouble this way.
My kid brother has one. You know why?
Yes ... Fits better in a football helmet.
How'd you guess?
That's the kind of a kid brother you'd have!

A forlorn hope - but there is a chance.
It might give us time to search out some weakness in the Martians.
I believe we can get a lead from their anaemic blood.

We know now that we can't beat their machines -- but we can beat them! They are mortal beings...The only question is whether we have time enough to do anything!
If we get what transportation we can, and pick up instruments and books from Pacific-Tech...

The Rockies...! You'd rather get back to that big family of yours in Minnesota, wouldn't you?
I wonder if they're going through this too...?

I probably wouldn't be able to get to them if I tried...
You'll be all right with us.... ...for as long as anybody's got!
Don't let's lose each other.

Gratzman! -- Gratzman! Did you get those biotics?
No. I thought you had them.
All right. I'll get them! Go ahead - go ahead! I'll catch up with you.

Hey, you! Better get outa here!
I'm looking for some Pacific-Tech professors...
There's nobody left around here now.
We had a chance...We could have stopped them! The mob stole the trucks and smashed everything up. The fools! They cut their own throats!

Hurry up! Jump in!
There was a girl with them...If I could find her....

You look kinda lost yourself.
But I think I know where she'll be....
<|endoftext|>
