This isn't human blood.
Then what is it?
I don't know -- Look at this blood smear --

The red blood cells are biconvex, which is theoretically impossible. They're hypochromic, there's virtually no hemoglobin in them. Look at the PMNs, they're binucleated, they should be mononucleated.
What about the chemistry panel?

Curtis, it's three in the morning. I'm really not in the mood for one of your practical jokes.
It's not a joke. I've got the stiff sitting in the morgue right now -- look, just come up and see him, okay? Five minutes, that's all I ask.
I thought you promised to give me some distance?
This is purely professional curiosity, Karen, I swear.

Five minutes, not a second more. And I don't want to hear a word about "us".
No problem.

You haven't started in on the internal organs?
Just the blood sample from the pericardial sac.

That's weird --
What?
He looks different now, burns are less extreme, some of these wounds have closed up --

Tell me something, honestly, you ever have second thoughts about us?
Sometimes --

-- but then I remember what an ass-hole you were and I'm snapped back to reality.
Jesus, Karen, you're breaking my heart here --

Whistler!
Are we bringing home strays now?

She's been bitten.
You should've killed her, then.
She hasn't turned yet. You can help her.

What -- ?
You've been bitten by a vampire. We've got to try and burn out the venom, just like a rattlesnake bite --

Blade. Once again, our interests have fallen victim to his ridiculous crusade. He must be destroyed.
You're wrong, Dragonetti.

The Day Walker represents a unique opportunity. We'd be fools to waste it by killing him.
Deacon Frost. You refuse to speak our language, you insult the House of Erebus by using the humans' gutter-tongue, have you no respect for tradition?
Why should I respect something which has outlived its purpose?

I see. And what would you have us do with this "half-breed"?
Study him. Unlock the secrets of his DNA. He's the key we've been looking for.
He is an abomination!

The shadows suit us, Frost. We've existed this way for thousands of years. Who are you to challenge our ways?
Someone who's sick of living off scraps. The coming age belongs to us, not the humans! When the final war between our races comes, who do you want leading the charge?

I had to increase the dose. You're building up a resistance to the serum --
Just do it, old man.

You shouldn't be here.
I'm sorry, I --

Who are you people?
My name is Abraham Whistler. This is Blade. As for our little homunculus here --

-- he's a vampire.
You're joking --

Stupidity.
Maybe not. I did some checking, she's a hematologist. Knowledge like that might come in handy.
It's not worth the risk. We can't trust her.

Why?
Because you're tainted. The venom's still inside you. You could still turn on us.
What happens then?

So what do you use, then? A stake?
Some of the old wives' tales are true -- they're severely allergic to silver, various types of wood. Feed them garlic and they'll go into anaphylactic shock --

And you honestly expect me to believe all this?
I don't care what you believe. I saved your life once, I don't plan on making a habit of it. You want my advice, you'll be out of the city by nightfall. If you're stupid enough to stay, that's your business.
I can't just leave. I have a life here, a career --
Not anymore. You've seen one of them. You won't be allowed to live after that.

I can go to the police. I have blood samples back at the hospital. I can show them.
Do it. You'll be dead before you can file the complaint.
That's ridiculous! No one's that powerful.

Get in. Youre leaving.
Wait.

Consider it a parting gift. Vampire mace -- silver nitrate, essence of garlic.
So that's it? You guys just patch me up and send me on my way?
There is one other thing. I'd buy yourself a gun if I were you. If you start becoming sensitive to the daylight, if you start becoming thirsty regardless of much you've had to drink -- then I suggest you take that gun and use it on yourself. Better that, than the alternative.

These archives are restricted to members of the House of Erebus.
Please. You and the other Elders wouldn't know what to do with these texts if your lives depended on it. Which, of course, they do.
You're wasting your time, Frost. Far greater scholars than you have tried to decipher these words. Whatever secrets they hold have been lost.
Perhaps.

How did you know?
Figured they'd send someone after you. Thought I'd wait around and see who showed up.
You used me as bait?!
It worked, didn't it?
But, he could've --
He didn't. Get over it.

But he's a policeman --
He's a familiar. A human who works for the vampires. See this mark?

That's a glyph, kind of like a vampire cattle brand. That means Officer Friendly here is someone's property. Any of the other vampire's try to bleed him, they'll have to answer to Friendly's owner -- This glyph belongs to Deacon Frost. We've been tracking him for a while now --
Why in God's name would anyone want to work for them?
Because they're vampire wanna-bes. If they're loyal, if they prove themselves, then their masters will turn them.
And that's a good thing?
For some. Live forever, never get old. The ultimate high.

What are you doing?!
Preventive medicine.

You can't do this, he's human, it's murder.
It's war, now get the fuck out of the way!

Look, if what you say is true, if there's a chance I could turn into one of them, then I've got no choice, do I? I have to work with you. I need to learn everything I can about them. It's the only way I'll be able to find a cure for myself.
There is no cure.
You don't know that.

What are you looking at?
What do you see here?
Graffiti --
Look closer.

I know this place -- it's a blood bank.
Owned by vampires. There's one of these in every major city, and just like Domino's, they always deliver. You telling me you're ready to walk through that door?

You let him go -- An hour ago you were ready to kill a man for less, this one didn't even talk.
He will.

Looks like we hit pay-dirt. This place is crawling with them. See the valets over there? They're vampires. So is the doorman.
How can you tell?
The way they move, they way they smell --

So many of them -- I still can't believe they're real.
There are worse things than vampires out there.
Like what?
Like me.

What is this place?
Some kind of archive --
Isn't this all a little high-tech? I thought vampires were more into cobwebs and coffins.
You've been watching too much TV. They've got their claws sunk into everything -- finance, real estate, politics. Probably own half of Downtown.

We keep in radio contact.
You've been listening in the whole time?
You think I'd let him run loose without a chaperone? Blade ferrets their rat-holes out, I map them. Then we blow them all to kingdom come.

Whistler!
Go on, I'll be fine!

You're hurt --
Nothing that won't heal by dawn.

What am I injecting you with?
Serum -- it's a human hemoglobin substitute.

What took you so long?
Don't even start, old man.

Why didn't you tell me the truth about him?
We weren't sure we could trust you.

Blade's unique, you know. A one in a billion anomaly. He can withstand sunlight, garlic, even silver. But he still has the Thirst.
What happens if he doesn't take the serum?
The Thirst overcomes him, just like the others. It's not something he can control. The problem is, time's running out. His body's starting to reject the serum. And so far, all my efforts to find a cure have ended in failure --
No offense, Whistler, but you're not exactly working with state of the art equipment here. You might have missed something.
Which is why you're here. We could use someone with your experience.

Why do you hunt them?
Habit, mostly, just like this.

I had a family once -- a wife, three daughters. Then a drifter named Deacon Frost came calling one evening --
He killed them?
Eventually. He toyed with them first. He made me choose, do you understand? Which order they would die in --

How did you escape?
I didn't. He was cruel enough to let me live. Even gave me a souvenir to remember him by.

And now you're using Blade to exact your revenge?
Frost's bodycount keeps rising, and I'm not getting any younger, am I?

I wouldn't go in there if I were you. It's best to leave him alone when he's like this.
I'll take my chances.

It's dark in here.
You get used to the darkness.

I can't close my eyes without hearing her scream.
Those aren't real memories. No one has that kind of recall.
I do. I remember from day one. People staring at me, sensing I was different. Watching the fear grow in their eyes, knowing in their hearts I wasn't human.
If you're not human, then why do you bleed like us? I've seen vampire blood, you don't have it running through your veins.

Just get out of here.
Blade --

How do you like that? Right on time.
The other elders will never let you get away with this!

Going somewhere?
China Town. I need more serum. What's all this?

I made a trip to the hospital last night, borrowed some equipment.
For your miracle cure?

Is he sick?
Cancer.

You care about him, don't you?
We've got a good arrangement, that's all. Whistler makes the weapons, I use them, the vampires die -- end of story.

My mother used to say that a cold heart is a dead heart.
Your mother sounds like a Hallmark greeting card.

How's it going, Kam?
You're a week early.
I was in the neighborhood.

Whistler says I'm building up a resistance to it.
I was afraid that might happen.
Maybe it's time to start exploring other alternatives.
There's only one alternative to the serum.

Beautiful day, isn't it?
How can you be out here?
I dabble in pharmaceuticals, medical research. We've developed a type of sun-blocker using octyl salicylate, a few others things.

It's not very effective in direct sunlight, but it's a start. The goal, of course, is to be like you, "the Day-walker".
I don't buy it.
Why not? The future of our race runs through your bloodstream. You've got the best of both worlds, Blade. All of our strengths and none of our weaknesses.
Maybe I don't see it that way.
Oh, so it's back to pretending we're human again, is it? Spare me the Uncle Tom routine. You can't keep denying what you are. You're one of us, Blade. You always have been.
You're wrong.
Am I? You think the humans will ever accept a half-breed like you? They can't. They're afraid of you. The humans fear us because we're superior. They fear us because in their hearts they know their race has become obsolete.

The pause that refreshes -- Care for some? Smells good, doesn't it? Pungent, with just an irrepressible hint of iron.
Pass.
You sure now? I bled a newborn for this. You won't find a drink that's sweeter.

You're not going anywhere.
Watch me.

Any progress?
Some. It's been slow --
You don't look so good.
I'm just tired, that's all. We've been up all night.

For what it's worth, I'm sorry.
You make it sound like I'm already dead.

All right, let's start with the basics -- why do vampires need to drink blood?
Their own blood can't sustain hemoglobin.
Then vampirism is a genetic defect, just like Hemolytic anemia?

Basically you'd have to re-write the victim's DNA, alter it so that the DNA will produce proteins capable of generating hemoglobin.
How?
With a retrovirus. It's injected into the bone marrow cells, it causes the host's DNA to mutate. They've been using them to treat Sickle-cell anemia.

On me, yes. On Blade, I'm not so sure -- The problem is, Blade didn't contract the vampire virus from a bite like I did. He was born with it. The irony is, I could probably cure every vampire but him.
Then we're back to square one, aren't we? Sooner or later, the Thirst always wins.

What happened to the power?
I don't know, but the back-up generator should've kicked in.

Is something wrong, my friend?
You're blind --
There are other ways to see. Sit.

Hold out your hands.
I didn't come here to get my palms read. I need something translated.
Show me.

This is an old tongue, from an old world. It concerns LaMagra.
Who is LaMagra?
The vampire God. This speaks of His return.

The Day Walker's blood is a disparador -- a trigger, you see? For LaMagra's return. One need only consume it and the spirit of his ancestors will settle upon him. "And the Sleeper will rise from the shadows anew, cleansing the world in a Tide of Blood."
"The Blood Tide".
Yes. The vampire apocalypse. It is said that all who feel its taint will succumb to the Thirst.
How do I stop it?

I am tired. Dawn is coming.
But I just got here --
You've been here longer than you think.

Don't try to talk --
Listen. You have to -- finish me off. You don't want me coming back.
No, we can treat the wounds --

Whistler, I --
I know. Just be quick about it, will you? Do it right.

How many of you are there?
A few thousand scattered about the globe. In the past, we've had to restrict our numbers for fear of discovery. That won't be necessary after tonight.
What happens then?
The Blood Tide. Our long-prophesied holy war against the humans. There's a force, you see -- a spirit that exists in our blood. I've discovered a way to invoke it.
LaMagra --
That's right. The answers were there all along, of course, scribbled down in the forgotten languages of my kind. Waiting for someone with the patience to decipher them. My elders were foolish enough to dismiss them as wives tales. But I knew better. Imagine my surprise when Blade turned out to be the key which would set that force free.

LaMagra isn't a physical being. He's a spirit, requiring a flesh and blood host in order to manifest himself.
You.
Who better to usher in the Blood Tide?

There's no need for any of this. Your condition can be treated. Whistler and I were working on a cure when --
What makes you think we want to be cured? Blood is only part of the equation. The hunt, the killing, that's what the Thirst is really about.
But you use blood banks --
Only as a last resort. Preserved blood is inferior. There's no flavor left to it, no life. Fortunately, I've found a way around that particular obstacle.

You're a monster.
Why? Because we live at another species' expense? Your people farm cattle and veal, don't they? Fattening them up with steroids? It's called evolution, Doctor. Survival of the fittest.

But you -- died --
Deacon brought me back.
Fight him --

Please --
Listen to your father, Jason. It's going to be a better world.

Are you all right?
I've been better --
How long have we been driving?
I don't know. I woke up just before you did --

Is it bad?
We get out of this alive, maybe I'll take that miracle cure of yours.

It won't work on you.
What are you talking about?

Blade --
You're wasting your breath, woman. He can't hear you now. It's the Thirst, you see? It already has him in its grip.

How could you be a part of this?
These are my people now. I'm one of them.
You don't have to be.
You don't understand. I've killed, I've hunted, and I've enjoyed it.

I wish you could see the world as I do. Deacon opened my eyes. There's no turning back from that.
I don't believe that.
You will. Time is on our side. Sooner or later, the Thirst always wins.

Get out of here --
I'm not leaving without you.
You don't understand. The Thirst --

-- tearing me -- apart.
I know. Take some of my blood.
No --
It's the only way. You know that. We'll never get out of here alive if you don't.

I can't -- I won't be able to stop --
Yes you will. The human side of you is stronger. I know it is.

No longer.
Frost!!!

Who dies first?
Take him.

I was wrong about you, Blade. You were never one of us. You're a traitor to your race.
Get away from him!

Guess you're not quite as invulnerable as you thought.
You're wrong -- a few minutes more, and my transition will be complete. Even your sword won't be able to affect me then.
You don't have a few minutes, Frost.

You're too human, Blade.
It's because I'm human that I can do this.

I never imagined I'd be so happy to see the sun rise -- It's over, isn't it?
For them. But for me --
<|endoftext|>
