Go away!
Men have two faces: one that laughs and one that cries ...

Can you read?
Sure ...

Read it.
Here?

With an unloaded pistol?
I'll explain.

Let's suppose you were a spy. In prison, when the NLF contacts you, you pretend to support the revolution, and then the French help you to escape ...
Sure. By shooting at me.
Even that could be a trick. You escape, then show up at the address which the brothers in prison gave to you, and so you are able to contact me ...
I don't even know your name yet ...
My name is Kader, Ali ... Saari Kader ... In other words, in order to join the organization, you had to undergo a test. I could have told you to murder the barman, but he's an Algerian ... and the police would let you kill him, even though he is one of theirs. By obeying such an order, you still could have been a double agent. And that's why I told you to kill the French policeman: because the French wouldn't have let you do it. If you were with the police you wouldn't have done it.

But I haven't shot him.
You weren't able to. But what's important is that you tried.
What's important for me is that you let me risk my life for nothing.
C'mon ... you're exaggerating. The orders were to shoot him in the back.
I don't do that kind of thing.
Then don't complain.
You still haven't told me why you didn't let me kill him.
Because we aren't ready yet for the French. Before attacking, we must have safe places from which to depart and find refuge. Of course, there is the Casbah. But even the Casbah isn't safe yet. There are too many drunks, pushers, whores, addicts, spies ... people who talk too much ... people who are ready to sell themselves, undecided people. We must either convince them or eliminate them. We must think of ourselves first. We must clean out the Casbah first. Only then will we be able to deal with the French. Do you understand, Ali?

And how many are we?
Not enough.

You afraid of these ...?
Don't move, Hacene.
Why are you afraid? We've always been friends. One might even say that I brought you up ... Isn't it true, Ali?
It's true.
What's happened to you?
The NLF has condemned you to death.

How much are they paying you?
They're not paying me anything. They've already warned you twice; this is the last warning. Decide.
What ... What must I decide?
You've got to change occupations, Hacene. Right away!

Where were we?
Intersection, between Consular Street and General Laquiere Avenue ...

Good, thank you, Corbiere... . See you tomorrow.
Good evening, sir.

Tell me ... Where is this rue de Thbes?
Rue de Thbes? In the Upper Casbah, I think ...
All right. See you tomorrow, Corbiere.
Good evening, sir.

Good evening ... Can we pass?
It's too late. No one is allowed to enter the Casbah at this hour. It's impossible.
But it's not even midnight yet!
It's ten minutes past midnight. Curfew begins at midnight.
Please, we just want to take a short ride. A friend of mine has never seen the Casbah.
I'm sorry. Tomorrow. Tonight is out of the question.

Where's Kader?
With the others. They are trying to stop the people.
Go away.

Mathieu! Mathieu, a name ...
A name?
Yes, a name for the operation.

Why? Isn't he sleeping here?
No, it's better if he doesn't. The house is filled with new people.

Be careful now. Unless you know how it works, it's better if you sit on the plank and move forward like this ...
Let's try ...

It's good nobody is following us ...
It's a question of habit ...

What do you think of the strike, Ali?
I think it'll be a success ...
Yes, I think so too ... It's been organized well ... But what will the French do?

It's clear. They'll do everything possible to make it fail.
No, they'll do even more. We've given them the opportunity to do a lot more ... Do you understand what I mean? Starting tomorrow, they won't be groping in the dark any more; every shop and every worker who strikes will be a known enemy, a self-confessed criminal ... And they will be able to pass to the offensive. Have you thought of this?

No ...
But Kader told me that you weren't in favor of the strike.
No, and neither were my men.
Why?
Because they told us that we mustn't use weapons, now, when the time is right.
That's true ... Wars aren't won with terrorism, neither wars nor revolutions. Terrorism is a beginning but afterward, all the people must act ... This is the reason for the strike, and its necessity: to mobilize all Algerians, count them and measure their strength ...
To show them to the UN, right?
Yes ... yes. The problem also involves the UN. I don't know what it's worth, but this way, we'll give the UN the possibility of evaluating our strength.

Look around. I've put everything at your disposal. Go take a look with your own eyes.
The strike is a success; but ...
No. It has failed in its objective.

But the NLF has always spoken of a strike as a demonstration ...
And you believe the NLF?
They seemed to be plausible this time. A general strike is a good argument for the UN.
The UN is far away, dear sir. It is easier to make oneself heard with bombs. If I were in their place, I would use bombs.

It is an inevitable stage in revolutionary war; from terrorism, one passes to insurrection ... as from open guerrilla warfare one passes to real war, the latter being the determining factor ...
Dien Bien Phu?
Exactly.

In Indochina, they won.
And here?
It depends on you.

Go ahead! C'mon ... Repeat everything from the beginning, and then we'll let you go. Name ...
Sid Ahmed.
Second name.
Sail.
Which "district" do you belong to?
Second district ...
Second district ... Explain better ...
Second district, Casbah, West Algiers.
What "group"?
Third group.
Third group. What's your assignment?
Uh ... responsible for the sixth section.

It's better to split up, to increase our chances. We must change hiding places, and change them continually ... In the meantime, we must make new contacts, replace our arrested brothers, reorganize our sections--
Yes, but we must also show them that we still exist.
Of course. As soon as possible.
No, immediately. The people are demoralized. Leave this to me ...
No. Not you, or any one of us. As long as we are free, the NLF continues to exist in the Casbah. If they manage to take us too, there won't be anything left ... And from nothing comes nothing ...

Colonel Mathieu ... Much has been said lately not only of the successes obtained by the paratroopers, but also of the methods that they have employed ... Can you tell us something about this?
The successes obtained are the results of those methods. One presupposes the other and vice versa.

Excuse me, colonel. I have the impression that perhaps due to excessive prudence ... my colleagues continue to ask the same allusive questions, to which you can only respond in an allusive manner. I think it would be better to call things by their right names; if one means torture, then one should call it torture.
I understand. What's your question?
The questions have already been asked. I would only like some precise answers, that's all ...
Let's try to be precise then. The word "torture" does not appear in our orders. We have always spoken of interrogation as the only valid method in a police operation directed against unknown enemies. As for the NLF, they request that their members, in the event of capture, should maintain silence for twenty-four hours, and then, they may talk. Thus, the organization has already had the time necessary to render useless any information furnished ... What type of interrogation should we choose? ... the one the courts use for a crime of homicide which drags on for months?
The law is often inconvenient, colonel ...
And those who explode bombs in public places, do they perhaps respect the law? When you asked that question to Ben M'Hidi, remember what he said? No, gentlemen, believe me, it is a vicious circle. And we could discuss the problem for hours without reaching any conclusions. Because the problem does not lie here. The problem is: the NLF wants us to leave Algeria and we want to remain. Now, it seems to me that, despite varying shades of opinion, you all agree that we must remain. When the rebellion first began, there were not even shades of opinion. All the newspapers, even the left-wing ones wanted the rebellion suppressed. And we were sent here for this very reason. And we are neither madmen nor sadists, gentlemen. Those who call us fascists today, forget the contribution that many of us made to the Resistance. Those who call us Nazis, do not know that among us there are survivors of Dachau and Buchenwald. We are soldiers and our only duty is to win. Therefore, to be precise, I would now like to ask you a question: Should France remain in Algeria? If you answer "yes," then you must accept all the necessary consequences.

Who is speaking?
Mathieu. Colonel Mathieu.
We don't trust you, colonel. Come forward, show yourself.

Okay. But we want your promise for a fair trial in writing. Give us a written statement, Mathieu, and then we'll surrender.
How can I give you this statement?
We'll lower a basket from the window ...
Okay, I'll make the statement in writing ...

Are you ready, colonel?
Yes ... But let me first see you.

Why?
For many months, I've had your photo on my desk together with a dozen or so reports on you ... And naturally, I am under the illusion that I know you somewhat. You never seemed the type, Kader, inclined to performing useless actions.

You seem to be very satisfied to have taken me alive ...
Of course I am.
That proves that I was wrong. Evidently I credited you with an advantage greater than I should have.
No. Let's just say that you've given me the satisfaction to have guessed correctly. But from the technical point of view, it isn't possible to speak of advantages. By now the game is over. The NLF has been defeated.

What is she saying?
She says that Ali is still in the Casbah.

And so the tapeworm no longer has a head. Are you satisfied, Mathieu? In Algiers everything should be over.
Yes, I believe there won't be any more talk of the NLF for some time.
Let's hope forever.

Bah, for that matter, Algeria isn't the only country in the world ...
Why, yes, of course ... But for the moment, let's be satisfied with Algiers! In the mountains our work is always easier.
<|endoftext|>
