Don't like 'em, don't eat 'em, don't make no damn difference to me.
You know that was like a quadruple negative?

Can I at least have a drink?
It's ten thirty in the morning.
Yeah, if you've slept.
You know the law -- no liquor before noon. Could lose my license.
Don't you mean "don't need no liquor license not taken away from me"?

Hurricane kept you up, too?
Yeah, and I could've used the sleep. I'm supposed to meet people here tonight, try and get some work going.

Bill Styles...
Who?
Old friend. Haven't talked to him in -- 911. Can I use your phone?

This is totally unnecessary --
He asked to see a policeman, we're getting him a policeman.
But this guy you called, he's not even Army --
He's former Army and the best I've ever seen in a room. Besides, he knows the territory, we did Basic together here. You've had three hours with Dunbar and haven't gotten a peep, we need to take a different tack.
He's not Army, it's not official --
Then it's unofficial.

How are you?
Been better. I read about what's been happening with you... I should have called --
What kind of trouble are you in?

That bad?
Would I have called you if it wasn't? If there was any other way --
Tell me what I can do.

This is Warrant Officer Julia Osborne, the closest thing we have to an in- house investigator.
And here you are going out of house. How's that make you feel, Jules?

Hostile and uncooperative.
Fantastic. You want to tell me what's going on?

The official term for it is "Clusterfuck". By the time Beth hit us, I'd canceled all off base exercises save one -- a six man cadet team and their Drill out in the bush. We're missing three and the Sergeant. The cadets are in their eighth week of the cycle, nobody here knows much about them, up to and including their names. But the Sergeant...
It's not West, is it? Tell me it's not West.

Ah, Christ
You knew Sergeant West?
He was our Drill here. Man's older than sand.

A few years ago, the Army picked our good buddy as their go to non-com to trot out to the press to talk about the kinder, gentler military. He even did the standard video greeting played to all incoming Basic cadets across the country.
Well, he's a good soldier.

I didn't mean that as a compliment.
Sergeant West's served for twenty- three years. He's the public face of the modern Army.
And you notice I'm not in the Army anymore.

The exercise was one of his Section Eight "private sessions". Left around 2100 yesterday and were scheduled for pick up at 0630 this morning.
And the problem is you only got three.
No, the problem is one's dead, one's got a bullet in his arm, and one won't talk. The one who won't talk was trading live fire with the dead one as we reached the pick-up.
I'm assuming that's what made him the dead one?
Cadet Roberto R. Nunez. Killed right in front of me.

Search parties for the others are fanning out in a ten click radius from the pickup. If they're hurt and we can get to them in time...
I called the JAG Corps, the two cadets we retrieved are to be flown to D.C. on a transport leaving here at 1700 --

Which gives us about five hours. Why'd you call me?
The guy in interrogation said he'd only talk to a cop.
And I'm the closest thing to it, right?

Tom, bottom line: I let those kids go out there. If JAG shows up and I don't have any answers for them, my career is finished --
I'm not gonna let that happen.

Gotta be honest, I love what you've done with the place --
You and the Colonel go back.
He got me through Basic and a lot of other stuff. I owe him.
You're the Tom Hardy I've been reading about in the papers, right? New Orleans PD fired you for taking bribes from Guissepe Torres.
It was for suspicion of bribery, it's really all in the wording --
Wording and your friendship with the Colonel aside, I'm not comfortable having you involved in this.
Subtlety really isn't one of you finer points, is it, Osborne?

Three things. First -- You don't have a choice. Second -- I've never taken a bribe in my life. And Third -- I'm still a little drunk from last night, so if I skip over the witty banter and move forward to straight hitting on you, try not to take offense. Tell me about the two guys.
Hurricane knocked out our Mainframe, so all we have are their dogtags. Cadets Raymond Dunbar and Levi Kendall --
Levi? Who names their kid Levi --
Senator Jonathan Kendall, of Ohio.
Christ... Remind me to thank Bill for mentioning that on the phone --
Kendall Junior is still in surgery, so he won't be available to answer for his name or anything else for another hour -- the cadet we're talking to first is Dunbar.
He's in interrogation?
Yes.
Move him.
Why?
Because interrogation rooms look suspiciously like interrogation rooms, which doesn't exactly put people at ease. Is he cute?
Excuse me?
Is Dunbar cute?
That is the most unprofessional --
Is he handsome, self assured, carry himself well, does he look you in the eyes or down at the floor, does he have good bones, suggesting good breeding, does he slouch or sit up straight -- these are important questions, as they reveal a great deal about this man's character so please get over yourself for two and a half seconds and tell me is he cute?

Thank you. At some point in there I'm gonna rub my nose. When I do, go at him with everything you got.
Good cop/bad cop?
Something like that.

I questioned him for three hours and he didn't make a sound. You don't have a badge, he won't talk to you.
Ten bucks says I have him talking in under three minutes.

Why not?
I asked for a policeman.
You're under military arrest, it's not gonna happen. What's wrong with baseball?
It's... too slow.
Well, it's a game of anticipation, that's the beauty.
I just don't like it.
What do you like then?

I don't know... I like the Army.
C'mon, Ray, everyone hates the Army during Basic. I'll tell you straight, I hated it here.
You did Basic here?
Fifteen years ago under Sergeant West. Piece of work, that guy. I remember, he used to have these two silver .45's with ivory handles and if you weren't quick enough, he'd knock you on the head with one of them. He still carry those guns?

There's no need...
They're dead, aren't they?

The Colonel saw you shoot Nunez, you're a murderer --
See, Ray, this is what we call "good cop, bad cop". She shouts, I stand up for you, you're grateful, a bond of trust is established.

Right. Now, I'm gonna go get you another donut and you think about whether you want to talk more, okay?
Okay.

Baseball?
I believe somebody owes me ten dollars --
You made me look like an idiot --
Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't know the object of the interrogation is to make you look good -- Everyone knows good cop, bad cop -- by admitting it I appeared trustworthy.

You think he did it?
No --

Why'd you ask for a cop, Ray?
I'm not telling you what happened.
Okay... but I would like to know about the other cadets. What they were like -- nice guys?

Some.
Tell me about them.

You motherfuckers have just made the worst mistake of your lives! You have chosen to join my Army! This Army is my mother, my father, and my little virgin sister and I will not allow anyone or anything that is not up to my standards near her pretty little virgin cooze, do you understand me -- give me a sir, yes, sir!
Sir, yes, sir!
Those who I deem unworthy to pass through this camp will quit, and those who refuse to quit I will kill. You ever hear of a training accident -- give me a sir, yes, sir!
Sir, yes, sir!
In my time I have killed sixteen men for the good of my country, sixteen men whose entrance into this Army I could not condone, as it would weaken the fabric of this nation's defense! This base suffers an average of three training accidents a year, unfortunate incidents that I will not hesitate to repeat if you cross me, understand -- give me a sir, yes, sir!
Sir, yes, sir!
So forget what you've seen on Sixty fucking Minutes about the kinder, gentler military -- you will either succeed, quit, or die by my hand!

Cadet, what's your name!
Sir, Dunbar, sir!
You know how to work a pistol, Dunbar?
Sir, yes, sir!

Dunbar you are to stand here and guard this nigger for the next twenty- four hours! He is not to be given food, water, or clothes! If he so much as moves, you are to blow his nigger brains out, is that clear?
Sir, yes, sir!
The rest of you, fallout for physicals!

Are you saying Sergeant West tried to kill you?
No, ma'am, he just wanted us to quit. Making it through was kind of an honor. Some of the other guys on the base told us that if you could hack Section Eight, Command would consider you at the top of the class.

That first night with Pike. I made the mistake of letting him sit down at around 0300.
Tell us about the other guys, the ones West weeded out.
There were six of us...

He was sickly. Had that shaking thing, whatd'yacall it, epoxy?
Epilepsy.
Yeah. Spent half his time in the infirmary. Only reason he enlisted was his father. West didn't section him till last week.

And those were the guys who went on the exercise with you?
Yeah. And that's all I'm saying.

You smoke, Ray?
This is one of those interrogation tricks, isn't it? You don't give me a cigarette till I tell you more.
No, actually, I just left mine in the car and was hoping you had some.

He's not done by a longshot, I can get more out of him --
He can wait. Kendall's out of surgery.

You really want to make banal chit- chat like that now?
You're right. We should sit in silence.
We're in the middle of a murder case --
Best time for banal chit-chat.

What is that?
Microrecorder for Kendall -- didn't have time to wire his room. Now tell me why you joined the army or I'll jab this pen through your neck.

Typical army brat story. Dad was noncom, Mom was a Nurse. There was never any real doubt of joining up.
You had a mobile of bayonets above your crib.
Something like that. You?
I lost a bet.

You're kidding.
Yeah. That's just the story I tell the girls to get them into bed. Truth is... I don't know. The whole honor and duty thing. Make a difference in the world, crap like that. Didn't really work out.

This is the straight hitting on me you were talking about, isn't it?
The very same.
You do understand that there's absolutely no way I could ever be attracted to you, right?
I plan to grow on you.
You're off to a late start.
So noted.

You guys really got the shit kicked out of you here.
Imagine what it must have been like for them out there. What do you think of Dunbar?
He's telling the truth, up to a point.
What point?

Something wrong?
Being back here. Gives me the willies.
Not the happiest of memories?

Remember, he's the son of a Senator, so go easy. Kid gloves.
Got it.

You... I've seen you around the Base. But you... You're not Army, are you?
Coast Guard, special detective detail. We feel this incident may have put the beaches of Florida at risk.

That's it. You're that policeman with friends in low places. Tell me, how's Guissepe Torres doing these days? Those racketeering indictments must have really been a downer --
Levi, you got about four hours before armed men show up here, put you on a plane to Washington, and lock you in a very small dark room. I suggest you talk to us.

I've done nothing wrong. I'm the victim here.
But not the only victim, right?
My, my, my, how did things turn so hostile so quickly? If I didn't know better, I'd say you two were out to get me.

We just want --
What, "The Truth"? Please. There are degrees of truth, officer, always degrees. Things are not what they seem.

That was kid gloves?
Have no fear, Osborne, we have not yet begun to fight.

But we have to question him -- Thought you didn't have cigarettes --
I lied. Wait for it...

My father is a powerful man. Over the years he's used that power to protect me, in one form or another, from certain... unpleasantries. I am a homosexual.
Senator Daddy must be thrilled.
He is not, shall we say, wild about the idea. He has asked me on numerous occasions to be more discreet about my proclivities, and I have done my best to oblige him. However, in the last four weeks, I began a relationship with another cadet. What do you think of that?
I think you just blew "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" out of the fucking water.
The Sergeant discovered this relationship and wanted me expelled. My father interceded, so instead, West Sectioned me and made sure every other cadet knew that I was gay.

He couldn't kick you out so he wanted you to quit on your own.
He wanted more than that.

Hurricane's due after midnight and we're still going out?
Toughens us up, Pike. You don't like it, quit.

Maybe we shouldn't go.
The faggot speaks.
You ever been in a hurricane, Mueller?
You ever been in a hurricane, Mueller?

We should tell him we're not going.
Oh, yeah, "Excuse me, Sergeant, sir, we don't feel like going out -- we don't want to get rained on." He'll kick our asses from here to Cleveland.

Some of you may have heard there's a hurricane coming! American soldiers do not wait for good weather -- they do not wait for a bright sunshiney day to do their duty! An American Soldier learns to operate in the worst conditions and turn said conditions into an advantage against their enemy! Anyone who thinks these conditions are too harsh, feel free to lay down and die, you get me?
Sir, yes, sir!
LZ is two clicks North of a cabin, you are to split into teams of two and work your way through your designated area blasting as many targets as you can find! Each area has twenty targets, first team to take all twenty and find the cabin wins! Teams are as follows -- Dunbar and Nunez, Pike and Mueller, Kendall and Childs!

He said what?
"You're gonna die tonight, faggot". Clear as day.
No one else heard it?
He whispered it in my ear.

Levi, I don't know if you're familiar with investigative work, but we have this little thing called "motive" and you just gave yourself one.
You said you wanted to know what happened -- I'm telling you the truth.
What happened to "degrees"?
I didn't kill him --
Then who did?

Don't you ever point a gun at me!
I'm -- I'm sorry...

A target, Kendall, cap a fucking target. What's wrong with you?
I thought I was gonna have an attack. Go into a fit and bite off my own tongue in the middle of the bayou. Childs could tell I wasn't right.
Just safety your shit and get behind me, okay? I'll take care of this.

Maybe I shouldn't tell you that. Maybe I should tell you I wasn't scared at all. But I was... Enough to almost kill him.
But you didn't.
No. Poetic justice, though.

Fuck, what the fuck is going on --
What do we do?
Whoever it is isn't shooting at us...

I don't want to go --
Fine.

Did -- did you --
It was the grenade you fucking idiot. Look at him!

This isn't our area. Whose area is this --
Can anybody hear me!

Hey, I -- Holy fuck... holy fuck, what the fuck did you guys do?
We found him like this --

You killed him you fucking faggot --
We found him like this! Kendall was with me the whole -- Listen to me!

We got -- I don't know, we got separated
Before or after the explosion? Mueller --
I don't know!

Shut the fuck up, you fucking faggot, You just shut the FUCK UP.
HEY!

What about Pike?
Maybe he'll be there. Either way, we have to go.

We finished the course and came here, then heard an explosion -- Where's Pike?
We don't know. West is dead.

They found him. Poor fucker was practically blown in half --
Poor fucker my ass...
You better watch it, faggot, I'm not sure you and Childs didn't do him --

What about you, wandering around alone? At least we have an alibi --
What do you mean, alone?

Pike and I got separated --
Yeah and he doesn't know when --
I remember now, it was before the explosion --
Oh, you remember now --
I'm about two seconds away from seeing if fairies really can fly --

He wouldn't kill anybody...
Oh, bullshit, he's a fucking convict. You know how much he hated West --
I hated West, Childs hated West, everyone with a goddamn brain hated West but that doesn't mean we killed him!

He is the only one unaccounted for.
Maybe he's dead too. Maybe you killed them both, Mueller --

Shut up. Let me see your grenades.
Why?
We were each given three so whoever killed West will be missing one.

Whose blood is that, Jay?
West's. Any kindling for afire?

What do you mean, West's?
I mean I killed him. Isn't that what we all wanted?

He admitted it.
Right in front of us. Mueller went after him but we held him back.

The thing is, we've got a real opportunity here. You turn me in tomorrow and we're both fucked --
What are you talking about?
A gay Senator's son who let his Sarge get fragged on a training exercise? The press'll crucify you and your father. His career will be over and it'll be your fault. But we do this different and you come out a hero.

How?
Mueller. He's as bad as West and we both know it. Now I can't do it, cause I'm tied up, but we get the others to go along --
I don't think I want to hear this --
Someone else can do the deed, it doesn't have to be you. Maybe Nunez too, he's got a tendency to follow Mueller, but the rest of us can come out ahead -- the guys who took out their Sergeant's killers! We'll move the bodies out to the creek and say we came over the hill right as they fragged West, all we gotta do is tell the story right.

Nunez was chasing Dunbar.
Because he'd shot Mueller.
But you didn't see it, right?
Like I said, I was in the kitchen. When I came out, Mueller and Pike were dead, Nunez and Childs were hit and Dunbar was gone.

Why did he come back for you?
I honestly don't know. Maybe to have someone to cover for him. And I wish I could, but there's no doubt in my mind he killed those men.

Okay. I think that's it. He rises and walks to the door.
Mr. Hardy?

Pike killed West, Dunbar killed Mueller, Childs, and Nunez.
Who killed Pike?
Someone must have got a shot off. He wasn't exactly a moving target.

What do you think?
It's too neat.

"Too neat." How long have you been an investigator?
I don't think that has anything to do with --
That means under a year. Let me explain what ten years of police work has taught me -- murder is basic. There are no conspiracies, no grand mysteries, and no evil puppet masters behind it all, pulling the strings; murder is shitty people doing a shitty thing to other shitty people -- it doesn't always make sense but it's always neat. Dunbar's our guy.

I just... He came back for Kendall. I don't think he's capable of murder.
Everyone's capable of murder, Osborne.

Look, all we've got is what Kendall says, and he didn't actually witness any deaths except Nunez. He found West, he saw Mueller and Pike, but just their bodies -- he didn't see any crime committed.
Well, I'm sure if he'd known this was all going to happen he'd have tried harder to witness it for you --

We've already been over the terrain twice. Nothing.
There was a hurricane, Bill, the wind probably moved it.
Habeas Corpus -- you have to have a body to have a crime.
Okay, then let's widen the search to include the endzone in Giants Stadium and the trunk of my car --
Without the body we have no physical proof. We need a confession.
From Dunbar? I hate to break this to you, but I don't think he's gonna be all that psyched to put himself in for the death penalty.
Nevertheless --
Nevertheless what'? Kendall will testify and that'll be enough.
Not for me.

You mean not enough to save you.
JAG gets here in three hours. Try for the confession.

Hey, Ray! Just had a nice talk with your buddy Kendall -- seems you killed three people!
That son of a bitch.
That'd be my reaction too --
He's lying.
Well, why didn't you say so? We'll just drop all your charges, then --
I'm serious --

Fuck "you're serious", Raymond, you got exactly zero truck with us; right now we'd take the word of a crackhead over yours, so if you've got something to say, say it.
Did Kendall tell you about the PX?

He said he worked there --
No, did he tell you about it? About the business Childs ran?
What business?
Pills, shots, you name it, Basic's a lot easier when you don't feel pain --

So Childs made some side money, so what? People are dead, Ray, and the only one we have to blame is you --
I didn't shoot West --
Yeah, we know, Pike did.

Why the fuck wasn't he in restraints?
I don't know.

Tom, where are you going --
Home, I'm done.
What about the confession?

You want a confession? Why don't you confess, Bill: people are dead and you don't give a shit about it! Only reason you called me is to protect your fucking job, you know this is your fault --
What the hell are you talking about --
I'm talking about West! We had him, Bill, we were there. You're the fucking Base Commander, you knew what he did to Cadets and you let him go on the way he always he has --

Styles couldn't reassign him, he's a legend --
You knew what he was capable of and you just stood by. It was just a matter of time till somebody fragged his ass, and you know what? He deserved it. There's your confession.

Goddammit, Hardy, you can't just leave --
Watch me.
You said you owed Styles and now you're gonna turn your back on him?

West was a monster! Fifteen years ago, I was here, I was Section Eight, I was Pike. Fuck being the knife dummy -- that thing he did, stripping Pike down, making him stand outside all night? He did that every year, he did that to me. Fifteen years ago, I wanted him dead, and now I'm supposed to care that somebody offed him? Sorry, no can do. I tried.
You did more than try. You cracked Dunbar in less than three minutes, as an investigator you're phenomenal --
Phenomenal at taking bribes, right?

I was starting to believe you, you know? That you weren't who everyone said. I guess I was wrong --
Oh, spare me the reverse psychology bullshit! This isn't my "great second chance", Osborne. Everyone thinks I'm a piece of shit cop who took money and nothing is going to change that. Nobody will ever know what happens here --
But you will.

Why do you care?
Because it's my job. Because people are dead. Because of the whole honor and duty thing, make a difference in the world, crap like that. We can do this, Hardy.

I didn't shoot West...
What?
Dunbar... He said he didn't shoot West. West wasn't shot, Kendall said he was blown apart by a phosphorous grenade and Dunbar never saw the body.

I apologize --
You saw West's body.
Of course --

Where?
The creek bed --

And he'd been shot.
Yeah --

What about the phosphorous grenade?
One went off, yeah, but it didn't touch him -- I thought you knew this --

Holy fuck... Holy fuck, what the fuck did you guys do?
We found him like this...

Somebody emptied a full clip into him --
Stop.

Jesus, what happened?
West... he's dead.

Back up.
Mueller was alone in the cabin?
Yeah.

Pike and I got separated... then I heard gunfire. Close.
So did we. Why didn't you come?

At least you and Kendall agree on that.
What happened next?

What the fuck happened to you --
What the fuck happened to you? One minute you're next to me and the next you're gone and the sky lights up like fucking Christmas --

Where have you been, Jay?
Wandering through a hurricane trying to find this place. It's gettin' bad out there -- Where's West?

Yeah, right...
Shut up. West's dead.

Roberto, what the fuck?
We just want to check your pack --
Why?

Whoever shot the Sarge blew a grenade first --
Blame the nigger, then, huh? Someone turns up dead, you just look for the darkest face in the crowd --

You know it's not like that --
Do I?

Right?
Yeah...

You gotta untie me. I didn't do this thing, Ray.
You hated West more than any of us.
Maybe, but that don't make me a killer --
You're the only one missing a grenade.
Which anyone coulda taken out of my gear on the chopper. Were you watching your pack on the ride in?

Ray, this is my life here. I ain't gonna pretend I'm not happy West is gone, but you know I couldn't have done this. It's not in me.
If not you, then who?
Mueller.
Oh, come on --
We're sweeping our area and suddenly he's gone. Couple minutes later, phosphorous grenade pops off about a third of a click away --
That's exactly what he says about you.
Who you gonna trust, Ray? Him or your friend?

You hated West, Mueller loved him --
Enough to go to prison? Childs' PX scam, Mueller was in on it --
Bullshit.
Look in my pack.
Why?
Just look. Little pocket.

Combat grade morphine. Mueller sold it to me.
You're lying --
Pull up my sleeve. Right arm.

Why... why didn't you tell me?
Becoming a morphine addict during Basic ain't exactly something you want to broadcast. Only Mueller and Childs know.

That still doesn't mean you didn't kill him.
You saw West, right? How was he killed?
Full clip to the body --
From up close or far away?
His chest was hamburger --
That's close range. You go full auto on a guy from close range, you're gonna be swimming in blood. Look at my uniform. Nothing.

Way I figure it, West must have found out about their little business and was gonna bust them, so they decided to get rid of him first...
They?
Mueller and Childs. One of them must've taken the grenade from my pack on the chopper...

I... I don't know...
What don't you know?
This is a lot of information to be getting... I have to think --

There's no time to think, Ray, we gotta get out of here! You untie me, we grab the guns, get Kendall and Nunez, and make a run for it --
No... no, we can just wait till we get back and then tell the M.P.'s --
We wait and I'm a dead man. I got a black face, a criminal record, and over a hundred other cadets who'll testify how much I hated West -- my court martial will take six minutes. It's either me or them, Ray, and you gotta decide right now.

Thank God...
What the fuck are you doing?

This place is going, Mueller. We gotta move --
Shut the fuck up. He was gonna cut him loose.

We all know what you did, Pike. I don't know what kind of nigger voodoo you been working in here, but --
Where's your shirt, Mueller?
I used it to start the fire --
Still got mine on, not a speck of blood on it. Not a bad trick for a murderer -- you said you burned yours?

I was freezing from the hurricane --
So you took off your shirt?
To start a fire, goddammit! What about him, huh? Maybe he offed the Sarge and changed shirts, brought an extra one in his pack. Y'ever think of that? Go ahead, cut him loose! First chance he gets, he'll waste the rest of us, that's how they work --

Goddammit, Ray, we gotta get out of here --
We're not going anywhere.

Cadet Michael Mueller, I hereby place you under military arrest for the murder of Sergeant Nathan West --
The fuck are you talking about --
You are to be stripped of all weapons and placed under guard --
Bullshit --
Until we return to base, and ballistics can match your weapon to the slugs in Sergeant West's body --
Shut up!

A test will no doubt link you to the killing --
Put it down!

Tell him to shut up --
-- failure to comply with this arrest is a court martialable offense in and of itself --

Pike, please --
Although that won't matter much when coupled with the murder charge --

So you killed him?
I...

You too?
We can still come out of this okay. Pike got free, he got a gun, he came after us. That's the story.

West was one thing, but this --
Shut up, Mueller.

You framed-him...
None of that matters now. We got two dead bodies and a story that explains them. You're either with us, or against us -- which is it?

You shot Childs and Nunez.
They would have killed us both. You want me to write a confession, I'll write a confession.
You saved Kendall's life --
But not Pike's.

Why didn't you tell us all this in the first place?
Would you have believed me?

Where's the cabin?
Don't know on a map. West told us it was there, we just found it. Maybe the hurricane took it away.

Raymond, for you to have any chance of coming out of this, we need to locate the other bodies and examine them to corroborate your testimony. Otherwise this is just another story --
Mr. Hardy, I joined the army for college money. I didn't ask for any of this -- I tried to do the right thing out there and people got killed. You say finding those bodies'll help me, then go find them. I don't want to die.

Talk it through: Childs, Mueller, and Nunez know they're going out on the regular Tuesday Night drill, hurricane or no hurricane, so they plan it: Kill West, pin it on Pike.
And they're smart about it. They know when you commit a crime you know is going to be investigated, you need a fall guy and for that to work, you have to have a witness.
Dunbar.
Exactly, someone who's not involved, who's word can't be questioned. You only let them see what you want them to see, you make them believe, so when the time comes, they've totally bought into your version of events.
They believe the innocent are guilty and the guilty are innocent.
And if they're asked, that's what they'll tell the, world.
So it's a good plan but it goes wrong; Mueller flips out and shoots their fall guy, which means they have to bring Dunbar and Kendall into the cover story --
Kendall maybe would have agreed, but the hurricane buttfucks the cabin --
Buttfucks the cabin?
And all hell breaks loose. A lot of Good guys shoot a lot of bad guys and whiz, bang, zoom, happy ending.
So why, after Dunbar drags Kendall out from under a house, does the Senator's son try and get us to put his savior in the gas chamber?
That bugs you too?
Little bit.
Let's go talk to Bill...

What I said before --
Was dead right. You think Dunbar's on the level?
Yeah.
Does Osborne agree?

You want Kendall, don't you?
He tried to burn Dunbar to us. You don't do that if you're not involved.

You both know if you do this, if you go after a Senator's son and you're wrong... it's not just me in the hot seat anymore.
We know.
I'm giving you a chance to walk away.

Pike never confessed.
We've been making progress, I see.

Running out of time, are we? Tick- tock, tick-tock, how long till your witnesses fly the coop?
Fifty minutes.
Not much time to solve the crime. Tell me, detective, how did it feel taking blood money from Guissepe Torres? Did it weigh on your conscience or did you just not think about it?

You tried to pin three stone murders on Dunbar --
How many murders did you cover up? One? Five? Maybe an even ten.
Can I go to jail for punching a guy who's been shot?

Epileptic attacks are murder on your system. Rattle your internal organs like a paint mixer.
My heart weeps.

Pike never confessed.
No, but it got you interested, didn't it? Got you to dig. Inspired Ray to tell you terribly sordid tales about drugs and creek beds and dead little sergeants who stuck their noses where they didn't belong.

Is it the truth?
There's that word again. As I told you, I wasn't in the room when everyone started shooting.

Dunbar says you were.
Then he's mistaken. You know, I really don't think my father would approve of this line of questioning --

Why did you tell us he shot everybody, Levi? You put him in for three murders, the man saved your life --
So I should stay silent about his misdeeds? The guns went off, I ran in, Childs shot me, Pike and Mueller were dead, and Dunbar was running out the door with the smoking gun --
Dunbar was running out the door? Ohhhhhh... See that's where I was confused, because I thought you said Nunez was running out the door.
No. I said Dunbar.
Huh. You know, I really thought you said Nunez. I thought you said "Dunbar was gone," My fault, I gotta check the tape on that. Oh, yeah we taped the last interview. This one too. Cause it'd be a real break for us to catch you in a lie.

I believe your next line is "What are you trying to hide?"
Well?
Sorry to disappoint. I'm on painkillers for the injury -- they cloud the mind. You're right, it was Nunez. Any more questions?

Dunbar will testify that you were.
Then we'll leave it up to the courts -- His word against mine. What does his father do again? Steelworker? Doesn't matter, I'm sure justice will be served. In any case, my father will definitely want to talk to you about all these questions, these accusations on his son. He's quite protective.

We're fucked, I know --
They got their stories straight.
What?
What Kendall said -- "the type of guys you don't feel comfortable going to sleep around." That's what Dunbar said about Childs to the letter.
Are you sure?
Positive. Hardy, they planned this.

Something funny, Levi?
I was just thinking of what's going to happen to your careers when my father gets through with you.

Why don't you talk to Levi off the record for a second?
Good idea.

You and Dunbar got your stories straight. Little details, little inconsistencies, designed to bounce us back from one of you to the other, asking questions, killing time, until the transport arrives and whisks you away to where Senator Daddy can protect you. You think you're just going to slide out of this? You're an accessory to murder, Levi, you're going to jail --
You can't threaten me --

Jail if he's lucky, the gas chamber if he's not --
I didn't do anything --

It doesn't matter, Levi. We're going to find those bodies and when we do, I'm going to make sure one of them has a bullet in them that matches your weapon --
What?

That's a fantastic idea --
See, I just take your gun to the morgue and fire it into one of their skulls; then I call every newspaper in the country with the story about how Senator Kendall's gay son went nuts on a training mission --

It won't work --
It will and you know why? Because you're not a person anymore, you're a cadet in the United States Army; you have no identity, no Miranda warning, and no rights. So I'm gonna throw you to the wolves, and unlike you, I'm gonna get away with it, because you're pissing me off!

Enjoy your flight to Washington --
Wait --
What.

Dunbar's telling the truth.
Wrong answer --
We did get our stories straight, but not because we killed anyone. It was because I threatened him.

Why?
Because of what I saw. Who really killed West.

Who, Levi --
Childs.

How do you know?
Because I was standing next to him.

I told him what had really happened to West. Told him to keep quiet about it or I'd destroy him. Because if it came out that I was involved with the whole PX scam, my father would be finished.
I scared Dunbar into silence. He's been trying to cover for me the whole time. We got here, you came to see me... I didn't know if I could trust him with that kind of secret --
So you framed him. The same way Childs was going to frame Pike.

What happened with Nunez?
He came after us. And I told Dunbar he had to kill him...

Or you, Levi? When is it finally going to come out that you were the one who killed him?
I didn't --
But you can't prove it! You can't prove anything until we find the bodies!

You lied to us, Levi, you're going to the gas chamber unless you tell us where to find them!
I don't know --
Where are they!
Maybe --
MAYBE WHAT --
Maybe he...

I pushed him too hard.
You couldn't have known --
Yeah, I could've. Should've.
You wanted to get the truth.
No, I didn't. I wanted to humiliate him. For what he did to Dunbar. For fucking over the little guy.
You mean the falsely accused?

You wanted to break him.
Yeah.
So did I.

It's over. Time of death was 4:42. JAG's been notified and I called the Senator myself. My report will reflect that his medical condition made this unavoidable... you two had no culpability in the matter.
That's horseshit and you know it.
Maybe. But it's my fault and I'll carry it.

You think you could explain all this to me?
I wouldn't know where to start. I guess it was about one man framing another. He thought if the other guy got blamed, people would over look his own wrong doings.

What happens to Dunbar now?
Gets on his plane in ten minutes, which means you two are done. You'll understand if I don't walk you out.

They're taking your command, aren't they?
The Senator...

I'm sorry, Bill.
Don't be. I'm not cut out to deal with the West's of the world.
You're a good soldier, Bill.
I thought you said that wasn't a compliment.

So what now?
Now I go home, get drunk, and try and forget this ever happened.
Think it'll work?
Nah.

You know, you never told me why you left the army.
It dawned on me one day that we were supposed to be a nation founded on the principle of questioning authority... and all I did here was follow orders. It didn't add up. Plus, I got kicked out.
For what?
That's gonna stay my secret.

We were close to something with Kendall.
Maybe... Maybe we were nowhere near. Sometimes mysteries stay mysteries. I haven't by any chance grown on you, have I?
No.
Good, just making sure.

Sign here and here. Hey, ain't you the folks workin' on that whole hulabaloo from last night?
Yeah.
Terrible tragedy. One of those Section Eight boys worked in here. Pike. Heard he got out okay.

Funny. I swear I saw them bring him and the smaller guy in this morning.
No, no that was Cadet Dunbar --
You mean Ray Dunbar? Well, that ain't right.

So?
Ma'am, Ray Dunbar's black.

Four --
Get in.

We're not finished yet --
You wanna bet?

We got maybe three minutes till they break it down.
Right back where we started.

You kept Kendall alive to corroborate your story and he did it all they way up to the end. You even gave him his own motive in case we decided to burn him, too.
Can't do that now, though, can you?

Is that what I did, now? And of course, you can prove all of it.
We can prove that you're not Ray Dunbar. Impersonating a fellow Cadet is a court-martial in and of itself --
Did I ever claim I was Raymond Dunbar? Was I ever told to state my name rank and serial number for the record? No. You assumed who I was, because I was wearing this uniform. Don't believe me?

We don't need the tapes --
Oh, you don't? What else do you have on me? You haven't found any bodies yet, have you?
We've found all of them.

Ohhhh, I don't think so...
How do you know that?
Just a guess. Maybe they're not where they're supposed to be. Maybe somebody moved them. Habeas Corpus -- no bodies, no crime, and Nunez still plays as self defense. Face it detectives... you have nothing.

Not true, Cadet, I've got a gun --
Jesus!

Hardy, what are you doing --
Isn't this how your story goes?

We can tie you to the chair if it'll work better for you --
Hardy, for Chrissakes --
WHERE'S WEST'S BODY?

He -- He made me do it --
Do what?
Hunting -- we had to hunt him --

I guess Nunez wasn't dead after all. He came after us with a vengeance. You know the rest.
And the bodies?
You won't find them. Won't find West, either. He's too good.

No bodies, no West...
No death certificates. No crime.

We need to talk --
Seven.

What?
Seven guys. What was it you said? You were "just starting to believe I wasn't the guy people said".

This isn't the time --
This is the perfect time. You know what makes a good detective? The number of confessions they get. You're a good detective, Osborne. So now you get mine.
What if I don't want it?
Tough.

That's not true.
There are degrees of truth, officer. Always degrees.
You're a good man, Hardy.
Really.
Far as I'm concerned, whatever you did in the past can stay in the past.

West?
Nobody saw. But I don't think so.

Do I have a choice in this?
Yeah. I can wait till you're off the base and do it myself.

It was so good, I actually forgot you're one of the bigger dogs now. The Base Commander. The one in control. You couldn't let him testify, could you?
What are you talking about?
If you let him testify then it would have all come out. West was supposed to take care of it out there, shut Nunez up and then disappear. But it got messy and people got killed. So you called your old pal Tom Hardy, figuring if worse came to worse, he'd cover for you.
You're drunk --
I'm not going to cover for you, Bill. Not for this.

Stay where you are.
Or what? You've gone round the bend --
West had a partner. Someone who knew how to get things done.

What I can't understand is why you signed these. If you'd just let West take care of the paperwork, no one would have known, but you got careless. So when Pike finally told the truth you had to get rid of him, too.
That's preposterous --
Toxicology report came back. Kendall's attack was caused by a drug known as anephadrine, maybe you've heard of it. It's for asthmatics. If an epileptic takes enough, it kills them. I checked with the nurses at the hospital -- you're the only other person who visited Kendall.
I wanted to see if he was okay --
You poisoned him, Bill. You heard our interrogation, you knew he was ready to crack, so you killed him, just like Pike.
I'm not even going to dignify that --
No! You will stand there and you will listen! What happened to you, Bill? You were the one who joined up to do good in the world. You were the one who believed in it --
You want to get into a finger pointing contest about character? The army kicked you out for drugs, the cops fired you for taking bribes from a mobster, and you think you can stand there and lecture me on codes of conduct? There's only one criminal standing in this room and it's you.
Not for long.

No more witnesses. West's a ghost. But it doesn't matter because we have your signature, the hospital log, and Kendall's toxicology report. And that'll be enough.
You're crazy --
You can't duck this, Bill. I may have done every goddamn thing in my life wrong but I won't let this happen.
For the last time, I have no idea what you're talking about --
Get your hands away from the desk!

What are you doing out here?
Leaving without saying goodbye. What are you gonna do?
Go home, get drunk, and try and forget this ever happened.
Think it'll work?
Nah.
Want company?

A word of advice about women -- that first hour or so after they kill their boss? Probably not the best time to hit on them.
I should probably write that down.
Yeah.

Your phone number?
In case you need me to testify about the shooting. They'll clear you.

He was your friend.
Yeah. But he was a lot of other things, too. Thanks.

What the fuck is going on?
Your weapons, Sergeant.

You never told me why you got kicked out of...
The army kicked you out for drugs...

I promised them I'd ask you where West and the others are...
Washout rejects, guys he said were "dumbfucks too stupid to know they dead"...
He's telling the truth up to a point...
<|endoftext|>
