Did you call the Zoo?
Yes, sir. We're in luck. The sick bay's almost empty except for a mauled fox cub, a deer with pneumonia, and a depressed gorilla. The Apes will be hidden from the public. They'll be quarantined. If they want medical attention, it's available on the spot. And the experts can start giving them the once-over first thing in the morning. General Brody's very pleased.
Me, too. Can't have a lot of monkeys making messes in the Guardhouse. Have we fed them? Like raw steak or something?
The Zoo tells me that chimpanzees, like all apes, are vegetarian, sir.
Good God.
They suggested oranges.

Excuse me. I didn't mean to disturb.... What am I saying?
They're...pretending to dress.
What d'you mean, pretending? They are dressing. Where'd they get those clothes?

In some fashion -- and I lack the intellect to know precisely how -- we have traveled from Earth's future into Earth's past.
But we saw Earth destroyed.
And Earth will be destroyed -- just as we saw it. Only, since fleeing it, we have passed through a....backward disturbance in time -- did you notice the Date Meter clicking down after the shock wave hit our ship? -- and we have returned to Earth almost two thousand years before its destruction. That is another reason for keeping silence. Our human captors would not be edified to know that, one day, their world will crack like an egg and fry to a cinder, because of an Ape war of aggression.

What, Lewis?
There was a sort of carpetbag in the ship.
With food?
No -- clothes. Stevie, they changed into them.
I don't believe it.

What are they doing here?
Security. Join the Marines and see the Zoo ...

Go easy, Stevie.
They look pretty docile.
Yes, but don't take any chances.

Zira, are you mad?
Dr. Milo, please don't call my wife mad.
I did not call her mad. I merely asked her if she was. And I repeat the question. Are you mad?

To a lot of psychiatric small talk --
And we can watch ...
A display of primitive apparatus --

We shall want a full autopsy ...
With particular emphasis on the cranial and oral areas.
Keep him in cold storage till the reports in. Then send him to Taxidermy. He's a museum piece.

But he isn't us. He's your own kind.
He's a gorilla.

I mean he's of your race. He's an Ape. Look. You don't have to be afraid. We've put him in chains and under sedation. Do you understand that?
I should. I've been doing it half my life to Humans.
Humans?
I'm a psychiatrist.

So am I. And I mean you no harm.
We know that.

Do you have a name?
My name is Cornelius. And this is Zira -- my wife.
My name is Lewis -- Lewis Dixon .

Nobody's going to believe it.
Believe what?
That primitive apes can talk.

Primitive?
I mean that in our 'primitive' civilization, apes just don't talk. I mean I think it's important that, when our 'primitive' security precautions are lifted, the first time you say something in public you should talk to what we 'primitively' call the Right People.

May I say something personal?
Please
I like you.
<|endoftext|>
