Well...how do you feel?
Ask me in about five minutes.

What's wrong?
Nothing.

What murders?
Never mind, you don't want to know about it.
Tell me.
There's nothing to worry about, Suzy. The guy's dead now, somewhere at the bottom of this lake...if you believe the stories. Let's drop it, okay?

Right.
I mean, Lakeview High just closed its doors for good, right?
Right.
So there's no reason for him to come back because there won't be any of us around...right?

Did you hear that?
Hear what?

All right, all right -- I'm a major ass.
And you'll never do it again.
And I'll never do it again. Forgive me?
No.

Which cabin is Rennie in, Mr. McCulloch?
Rennie's not coming.

But I thought...
She changed her mind. Let's see...Mr. Wolfe is in stateroom one-eleven and you, Mr. Robertson, are in two-twenty-five.

I'm glad you decided to come after all.
Me too. But I'm not sure Uncle Charles will be.
You let me worry about him, okay? Personal experiences are what fuel the minds of great writers, Rennie. You made the right decision.
What about not-so-great writers?

Everything okay?
Just felt a little chill.

Did you know that I'm giving up teaching?
Really?
Since the school is closing anyway, I'm going to write that novel I've been threatening on everybody.
That's wonderful, Miss Van Deusen...what's it about?

Stephen King supposedly used it when he was in high school.
I don't know what to say...
Rennie, you're the best student I ever had...you have a real gift. If anybody can make use of that pen, it's you.

I hear the crew members are cute guys in their twenties.
Really?
I'm sure we'll have no problem getting them to party with us...especially with this.

It's my graduation gift from Daddy. It cost over a thousand bucks but it's the best.
He bought you that?
More or less. It's part of my college fund.

All right. But if it mysteriously disappears en route, I'll have you sent back home the minute we dock. Understood?
Perfectly.

A major prick.
What are you going to do?
Improvise, of course.

Hello, Charles. Has everyone checked in?
Jim Miller and Suzy Donaldson never showed up. I'm a little concerned.
Don't be. They probably decided to explore each other rather than New York.

Let's go -- we're running two minutes late.
Charles, there's someone else coming along too.

You have no right...
And neither do you. It's up to Rennie to decide what she wants to do.
She doesn't know what she wants. She's never had a stable life.
And she sure doesn't have one now, either. She needs to live.
I'm her legal guardian, not you or anybody else, and I alone know what's best for her. End of discussion.
No, I think it's just the beginning.

Rennie...
Hi, Sean.
I heard you weren't coming.
We changed our minds.

I got you a present.
But I didn't get you one...
Forget it. It's a dumb little thing anyway.

I thought maybe we could hike to the top of the Statue when we got there, if you felt like it. It's supposed to be 22 stories tall.
I'd love to.

You're making a big mistake, Rennie. It's not too late to put you back on land.
I'm staying.
If Miss Van Deusen knew how afraid you were of...
She didn't push me into coming.
Why are you doing this to yourself?
I don't even know why I'm afraid, Uncle Charles. I can't even remember when it started. Don't you think it's time I found out and got over it?

Facing your fear doesn't always conquer it.
I'm staying.

He's undefeated, you know that? Julius is the only senior I'd even consider doing it with. If he wasn't black, that is.
My parents are open minded about that sort of thing.
My stepmom couldn't care less, but Daddy would have a shit fit. He might even pay some attention to me.

I think it's time for some recreational activity, girl.
Sounds good. I hear there's a shuffleboard court on deck -- it might be kinds cool...
You're joking, right?

No thanks.
What? Don't be a lightweight...this is top dollar toot.
It's not that, it's just that... It I get caught, I'll lose my science scholarship and everything.
You're talking to the prom queen, Eva. Do you really think I'm going to risk getting caught?
I guess not.
Do you realize how many people would kill to be sitting here right now? Come on, it's grad night. You've got your whole life to be uptight.

A real space cadet. I wonder if she'll narc on us...
I have her in Creative Writing and she's fairly nice.
Nobody related to McCulloch can be nice.

What are you doing in here?
Nothing.

I'11 be coming around your stateroom in exactly fifteen minutes, Miss Mason. You'd better have your biology project ready or I'm phoning your parents.
They're out of town.
Then I'll make sure you remain on board while your classmates see the sights.

What are you going to do?
Relax, I've got McCulloch covered... but that little narcing bitch niece of his is a different matter. Rumor has it she's a teensy bit afraid of the water...

Rennie -- I was just on my way over to your room
Have you seen my dog anywhere?
No, but I'm sure Toby's fine. The ship's only so big and there's certainly no way off it, is there?

So, are you having fun yet?
Yeah...a lot.
I seem to detect a hint of ingenuousness in your tone. In other words, level with me.
There's something I haven't told you...

That was truly excellent.
Yeah.
Time to check out the waiters.
I think I'll pass. See you later, okay?
But...wait a minute!

I can't swim.
I gathered that.

I had a skiing accident in high school, broke my left leg. It took three winters before I would even look at the snow again...but the solution kept eluding me. I finally took lessons. I've never broken a bone since.
It's not that simple.
Maybe not. But you're not telling me everything, are you?
Whenever I get near the water, I see this young boy drowning. He tries to pull me down with him.

When did this start?
About four years ago...at Crystal Lake. I spent a few summers there with Uncle Charles inbetween boarding school.
After your parents passed away?

Did you have an accident in the lake?
No. It was just a normal summer. I've never been able to figure it out.
Only one young boy ever drowned in that lake, and that was before you were even born. His name was Jason Voorhees.

She's fine, Charles. Take it easy...
Oh, I can see that. You've done a wonderful job of supervising the kids, Miss Van Deusen.

Where did you get that alcohol?
I packed it. Just for us.

That's it. You're not setting foot off this ship until we return home.
But I haven't even shown you my biology project...

It's okay...you're going to be okay.
I want to go home. I want off this ship.

Can he really take us home?
Not completing a voyage is against everything he stands for. But I think I can convince him to call a Coast Guard cutter for you.
What about you?
If I go with you, he'll never speak to me again. But I'm never going to live up to his expectations anyway...so maybe it's the right thing to do.

I thought I told you to stay away from her.
Where is she?

I don't know...we've gone off course or something...
What do you mean???

I think so. But we have to lower the anchors so we don't drift any further...
Where are they?
The bow...front of the ship. There's a hoist on each side that lowers them

I didn't mean for you to go!
Just radio for help, okay???

The Captain and Chief Engineer... they've been...they're dead.
What is your location?
I...I don't know...
Is your ship equipped with Omega satellite navigation or LORAN?
Yes...
The LORAN has a digital printout of your latitude and longitude. Give me the coordinates and we'll be there as quick as we can.

I've got the numbers.
Give me the degrees first, followed by minutes and sec...

I demand to know what is going on...
Oh dear God...

Where's the radio?
It's...dead.

What are you doing??
That lunatic has been spouting off about Jason since we boarded... It's no coincidence.
But that doesn't prove that he's the one!
Walking corpses are not real!

Christ...where's Rennie??
She's...she's dropping the anchors. I thought the Coast Guard could find us easier if...
What?? You sent her out there with a murderer running around loose??

What's going on? I heard on the P.A. system that...
The Captain's been murdered. The buzz is that Jason might be on board.
Jason...Voorhees?

Have you seen Tamara?
No. And I'm not losing any sleep over it.
But she might be in trouble...
So what else is new? Look Eva, you're asking the wrong dude to feel sorry for Tamara Mason. Wise up -- it's not hip to be her friend.
I don't care about being hip anymore.

You had me worried to death!
But Sean said...
I'm the one you should be listening to! Do you think dropping an anchor in the middle of a storm makes any sense whatsoever?

Can't we at least talk about it?
I refuse to discuss this ridiculous notion that a ghoul is terrorizing this ship.
But what about the drowning boy I've been seeing?

Whatever you've been...imagining... has nothing to do with Jason Voorhees. I want you to be safe, Rennie. That's all I care about.
I'm not staying in my room, Uncle Charles.
This isn't a request.

Did you find Rennie?
She's locked safe in her room, no thanks to either of you. Has he brought it back on course yet?

He's doing the best he can, Charles.
He's the son of the Captain, for Chrissakes. You'd think he'd be able to operate this thing!

What's that?
The fire alarm...

I doubt very much that one even exists.
What are you talking about?
Use some common sense! Setting off a fire alarm causes panic...the same kind of panic caused by suggesting Jason Voorhees is on board. Enough is enough.

Rennie...??
The window...

Rule one, don't panic. Rule two, assess the damage and act accordingly...
Is the ship going to sink??

We'll be okay. I want you to wait by the lifeboats, just in case.
I'm not going near any lifeboat!
But Rennie...
I'm not!!

What did you do with Rennie??
Nothing! I went to her cabin and...

She never should've set foot on this ship. This is your fault!
This is Jason's fault!
Not another word, do you hear me??

Dear Christ...
We have to get off this ship!!

Get in the boat, Rennie!
I...I can't...
You can and you will!!

There must be a phone around here somewhere.
A wonderful choice of places to dock a boat, Mr. Robertson.

Everyone split up -- we'll cover more ground that way.
I don't think that's such a safe idea
My niece's life hangs in the balance right now!! Every second counts.

Rennie...what'd they do to you??
Drugs... Then Jason came. He's here, Sean.

Jason's here in New York.
Don't be ridiculous!

What a beautiful day.
Perfect for a swim, isn't it?

You've been coming out here every summer for the last three years, young lady, and you still haven't learned how.
I'll take some lessons this time. I promise.

He never learned how either and he's still at the bottom of this lake.
He is not.
Oh, he is indeed. And ready to pull down anybody who falls in and can't swim.
You're telling a lie.
Am I? Let's find out.

I...I can't...
You can and you will! Swim, Rennie!

You pushed me...
I was only trying to teach you. But I pulled you out, Rennie. I saved your life.

You have to call the police...
Please, hurry...
<|endoftext|>
