Jerome...never shy. Pisses on command. You've got a beautiful cock. I ever told you that, Jerome?
Only every time I'm in here.

If everything goes to plan, this could be the last time I see you for a while. One week to go. Please tell me you're the least bit excited.
I'll tell you at the end of the week.

What are you doing?
I can't do this.
I told you, the government pays. It's all taken care of.
No, you don't understand. I can't.

The doctor will give you something.
I'm not doing it.
Honey, you've made one mistake--

--I've read your profile. I don't know about the father but you carry enough hereditary factors on your own. You can have other children.
Not like this one.
Honey, look around you. The world doesn't want one like that one.

The name? For the certificate.
Antonio--

First, we may as well decide on gender. Have you given it any thought?
We would like Vincent to have a brother... you know, to play with.

You've already specified blue eyes, dark hair and fair skin. I have taken the liberty of eradicating any potentially prejudicial conditions - premature baldness, myopia, alcoholism and addictive susceptibility, propensity for violence and obesity--
--We didn't want--diseases, yes.

We were wondering if we should leave some things to chance.
You want to give your child the best possible start. Believe me, we have enough imperfection built-in already. Your child doesn't need any additional burdens. And keep in mind, this child is still you, simply the best of you. You could conceive naturally a thousand times and never get such a result.
He's right, Maria. That's right.

Is there any reason you'd want a left-handed child?
Er, no...
Some believe it is associated with creativity, although there's no evidence. Also for sports like baseball it can be an advantage.
I like football.
I have to warn you, Mr Luca, he's going to be at least a head taller than you. Prepare for a crick in the neck in sixteen years time.

Anything I've forgotten?
We want him--we were hoping he would get married and have children. We'd like grandchildren.
I understand. That's already been taken care of. Now you appreciate I can only work with the raw material I have at my disposal but for a little extra...I could also attempt to insert sequences associated with enhanced mathematical or musical ability.
Antonio, the choir...
I have to caution you it's not fool-proof. With multi-gene traits there can be no guarantees.

How much extra?
It would be five thousand more.

I'm sorry, there's no way we can.
Don't worry. You'll probably do just as well singing to him in the womb. We can implant the most successful pre-embryo tomorrow afternoon.

What will happen to the others?
They are not babies, Maria, merely "human possibilities".

What do you think?
I think I could do something provided you know what you're doing and you can meet the terms.

Vincent...Vincent...
German, is that you?
Vincent, come down. I've found him.

He has the heart of an ox. He could run through a Goddamn wall--if he could still run. Actually, he was a big college swimming star.
I hope he's not just a body.
No problem. Before he dropped out he was an honor student, the right majors--
How do I square the accident?
It happened in Australasia. He checked in yesterday. No family complications, no record he ever broke his neck. As far as anybody's concerned, he's still a walking, talking, fully-productive member of society. You just have to get him off the pipe and fill in the last two years of his life. Excuse me, your life.

That's the hair color in his profile?

Yeah.
I'd have to bleach my hair.
Why are you inventing problems? You two are a couple of goddam clones. You look so right together, I want to double my fee.
How tall are you?

Okay, how tall did you used to be?
Six one.
He's too tall.

You can wear lifts.
Even with lifts I'm never that tall.
There's a way.

You okay, Jerome?
Yeah. You want to go dancing tonight?

What's wrong with it?
I think I'd better choose the menu. After all, you're learning how to be me, I'm not learning how to be you.
Suit yourself.
Listen, I don't want you to think I'm ungrateful --I know you and that little broker--what do you call him?
German.
You're both going to a lot of trouble-- Maybe you can con somebody into believing you're me to get your foot in the door--but once you're inside, you're on your own. I'm sure you're sincere... ...but I was being groomed for something like this myself. Even without the accident I don't think I would have made it. My point is--how the hell do you expect to pull this off?

I don't know exactly, Jerome.
At least you're honest. Call me by my middle name--Eugene--If you're going to be Jerome, you may as well start getting used to it.

I have to know where you come from.
If anybody asks, tell them the truth-- your family disowns you. You are a disappointment, Jerome.
What about this?
Wrong color. It's silver. It's not easy living up to this.

It needs work.
You had to be a right-hander.
Noone orders southpaws anymore.

You really need that much?
More than that. You'll get used to it.
God, what wouldn't you do to leave the planet?
Leave? Just a few million years ago every atom in this hair--in our bodies--was a part of a star. I don't see it as leaving. I see it as going home.
God, you're serious, aren't you?

It's not too late to back out.
You don't know what a relief it is not to be me. Are you sure you want the job?

What about you? What's in this for you, Eugene?
Listen, I bag this stuff anyway. It may as well pay my rent.

No bother.
I've been asked to compile a log for the investigators--they want to know everyone's whereabouts last night.
Last night? I was at home.

Can that be, er, verified? Were you alone?
No it can't be verified. Yes I was alone.

Looks bad, doesn't it, Irene? What about you? Where were you last night?
I was at home.
Were you alone?
Yes.
So we don't know for sure about you, either.
No.
Why don't we say we were together?
Why would we do that?
I have better things to do this week than answer the foolish questions of some flatfoot. Don't you?

Who died?
The Mission Director.
You wish.
They found him in his office this morning-- beaten so bad they had to check his nametag.

What an act of benevolence--a service to the community. So that's it. Now there's nothing between you and ignition.
He was still warm when they confirmed.
This calls for a celebration. Doesn't it?
The place is crawling with Hoovers.
So what? You didn't kill him, did you?

That's not the point.
Hey, how much of you can be there? Even if the "J. Edgars" do find something, in a week-- you'll be slightly out of their jurisdiction. Come on, we've got to get drunk immediately.
You're going to have to earn your supper. I've got my final physical tomorrow.

Let's get out of here.
You're right, there's more atmosphere where you're going.

I gotta stop!! I gotta stop!!
Keep going!! Keep going!!

At least up there your piss will be worth something. You'll all be showering in it, right?
And drinking it. It's like Evian by the time it's filtered.
What is that one?

11.15 to the port. A maintenance crew.
How long do you stay up there before you go?
A day or so.
I still can't believe they're sending you to the Belt--you of all people--never meant to be born, on a mission to discover the origin of life.

Up there they wouldn't be a problem.
You know I'm scared of heights.

I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
It's okay, Eugene.
You know I wasn't drunk--I knew what I was doing when I walked in front of that car--
--What car?--Go to sleep.
--I walked right in front of it. I was never more sober in my life.

It's all right.
I'm proud of you, Vincent.

I don't understand why you were dragged out here, Sir. It's hardly worth wasting your time--a no-nothing case like this.
A man's dead, Detective.
Of course, Sir. We're checking the entry log, alibis, grudges...
Grudges?
I look around, I see a lot of dry eyes. The Director was not... ...universally loved. He was leading the cut-backs in the program. You're looking at a room full of motives.
No, this is your man.
With respect, Sir--it may be the only unaccountable specimen but the profile suggests--
--What about his profile?

According to this, he's a sick man. Congenital heart condition. Who knows how long the specimen has been here but there's an 80 percent chance the owner of that eyelash has already died himself from natural causes.
So there's a 20 percent chance he's not dead.

Even if this Vincent Luca is alive, is it likely he could bludgeon a man to death?
No. Not likely.

Of course that doesn't jibe with what we found. This was an angry killing.
Who knows with these "deficients"? His profile indicates a proclivity for violence.
I'll run a crossover on the eyelash for any family or associate connections--
--I've already run it. There's no record of any living relative.
What a pity.
Detective Hugo, it's a simple case of lost and found. All we have to do is locate the man who's minus an eyelash and this murder will solve itself.

How often do you test, Director?
Often.
Surely you know what you have.
We have to be certain. Once they're up, we can hardly turn the boat around.

We believe we have a suspect.
What a relief.
This unaccountable specimen was found in the south wing corridor.

I'm sorry. I didn't mean anything.
We were just looking.
I know about you.

Have they found our friend?
Friend?
It was a mercy-killing after all.
They found an eyelash.
Where?
In the South Wing.
Does it have a name?
Just some In-Valid. Vincent-- --somebody.

Perhaps we ought to celebrate, Irene.
You celebrate, Jerome?

Call German.
Any particular reason?
We can't stay here.
What are you talking about?
They think I offed the Director.

What makes them think that?
They found my eyelash.
Where?
In a corridor.
Could be worse. They could have found it in your eye.

Come on--we're taking off.
I'm not going anywhere. Less than a week to go. Not on your life--
--You don't understand, they'll make the connection, they'll hoover again. We should cut our losses.
Where is your head, Jerome? You're acting like a guilty man. They won't marry the eyelash to you. They won't believe that one of their elite navigators could have suckered them for the last five years.
They'll recognize me.
How could they recognize you? I don't recognize you. Anyway, you don't have a choice. You run, you may as well sign a confession, turn us both in right now. No, we stick this out-- find out what we can but change nothing. This is a minor inconvenience is all it is. We've taken worse heat than this. Jesus, if I'd known you were going to go belly up on me at the last fucking gasp, I wouldn't have bothered. You can't quit on me now. I've put too much into this. Besides, this stuff is mine. I had other offers, you know. I could have rented myself out to somebody with a spine. You want me to wheel in there and finish the job myself? We'll take off all right, from pad 18 just like we planned.

And keep your lashes on your lids where they belong. How could you be so careless?
I'm sorry. I think I was crying.

You really had other offers?
I'm sure I could have.

So it's not just the Hoovers who've got you rattled.
You're the one who said not to change anything. She's my ear to the investigation.
Is that all?
I've got enough on my mind without that.
If you say so. The stripe.
Good choice.

Not thirsty? We've got enough virgin samples to last us the week.
I don't feel too good. I think I'm still drunk from last night.
Never stopped you before. And for God's sake stop plucking your hair. Someone went to a lot of trouble to make sure you wouldn't go bald.
If I were you I'd worry about myself. Haven't you forgotten something?

We're in the wrong place. We're wasting time.
This is the most likely location--

--There's that word again. I have a feeling This man doesn't play the odds, Detective. Not exactly a slave to probability. Is it "likely" that a man who has successfully eluded authorities for fifteen years--a brutal killer--is going to come to us now like a lamb?
Is there something more we should know about this suspect, Sir? I mean besides what's on his sheet.
Since going underground, traces of this In-Valid have shown up at the scene of four serious felonies. Do you need any more than that?
With respect, Sir, many perfectly innocent citizens have left specimens at as many crime scenes. Maybe he's just unlucky.
I don't like anybody this unlucky. Widen the sweep. The West side. Draw a five mile radius around Gattaca. Hoover some of the classier establishments. Random car stops.
We're already getting complaints about frivolous search.
This is a murder investigation. The public should be happy to co-operate, to get this disease off the streets.

You didn't know?
Yes...yes...
You're angry--
Why would I be angry? It was beautiful.

I envy you, Jerome.
You'll be next.
I don't think so. The only trip I'll make in space is around the sun-- --on this satellite right here.

It's here. My heart. I'm careful--weekly check-ups. I'm on a drug maintenance program, blood thinners, diet-- I just want you to know what you'd be getting yourself into.
What exactly is wrong?
Nothing yet. I'll start experiencing symptoms in my late-fifties. But unless they come up with something between now and then, I won't live much past 67.

Of course I think about it every day.
Of course.

How was your evening?
Complicated. I couldn't stop her apologizing.
You are a catch. No doubt she's worried that she would lower the standard of your offspring. Everybody wants to "breed up". What's wrong with her?
You know how it is with these altered births --somebody told her she's not going to live forever and she's been preparing to die ever since.
You're not thinking of telling her, are you?
Of course not. But she's have to know eventually.
She doesn't have to know. She doesn't want to know.

The skin flake was found in Michael's Restaurant. The employees are all accounted for.
A customer? Does this Michael's cater to misfits?
No. But one or two "borrowed ladders" have shown up there in the past.

Of course. He's a "de-gene-erate". He works at Gattaca. Why else would we find the eyelash near the washroom? Nobody stops to take a leak during a murder.
It's still possible the eyelash specimen came from a janitor, delivery man--it could have blown in through an open window.

He was afraid of being exposed. That's why he did it.
It is hard to believe he could be one of their elite workers. You've seen their security system. They know who works there. Even if you ignore the man's expiration date, his profile suggests that he doesn't have the mathematical propensity let alone the stamina to pass their physicals.
Don't underestimate these imposters.
None of the ID photos match the enhancement.
A man can change his face--but blood is forever. Sample every employee within the parameters I gave you. Intravenous.

You know their workforce. Two-thirds at least fall into the category. We'll be closing down their operation for days. At least go with a fingertip sample or urine.
Blood. From the vein.

I've got enough here.
Need any more, you can always get it off his shoes.

So you didn't do it after all.
I guess somebody beat me to it.

That's the last.
Something's not right.
He's not here. It's a blind alley.
No, we've missed something. We Hoover again.
We don't have the manpower.
Get it. From outside, if you have to.
From what budget?
I'll take it out of your damn pension if you question my authority one more time!

Would you care to look--in the telescope?
Thank you, no.
One look through there and you would know why I can't possibly allow you to disrupt operations any further.
You're so unconcerned that you have a killer in your midst.
Right now, your presence is creating more of a threat. I don't think you have any concept of what we do here--how meticulous our preparations must be. We are about to send twelve people through 140 million miles of blackness to rendezvous with an object the size of a house and the color of coal. So it's rather critical to point them in the right direction. And we certainly don't need you looking over our shoulders. Besides, I don't believe there is any evidence that the killer is amongst us. I don't see too many other dead bodies littering the place.
No, but since there aren't too many live ones tonight either, you won't mind us conducting one further sweep. If he does not work here, then there should be no other trace of him. I think you'd better get some people out of bed, Detective. In the meantime we can re-check his favorite haunt.

Where are we going?
I'm sorry. I've got plans.
Again?
She's already got her doubts. I have to act like nothing's wrong.
I'm sure you'll be very convincing.

Where are you taking her?
Michael's.

Everybody goes there.
You may as well invite her here.
Will you be okay?
Don't worry about your little pin cushion. To be honest, I'm looking forward to having the place to myself.
We'll still be able to talk when I'm away. The conversation will just keep getting longer.
How long?
By the time I'm at the Belt, you phone and say, "How are you?" Forty-five minutes later I reply, "Not bad. How are you?"
I guess I'd better have something important to say if it takes that long to get an answer.

What is this place?
You've never been here? Let me order for you.

Why are we leaving?
Those checks take forever.

What about the car?
Let's walk.
Who are they?
It's not safe. I shouldn't have brought you here.

I can't.
Come on.
My medication. I left it back there.
We'll get it later. Irene, please.

What are you waiting for?
Where do we start?
We'll vacuum these streets if we have to.

What happened?
You remember the '99 Chrysler LeBaron? It's the exact height of the front fender. Looked right instead of left.
So you're not so smart after all. I want you to know--if it ever came to it-- I'd be willing to get an ovum from the Egg Bank. In fact, I'd rather use a donor egg-- --if it came to it.
But "if it came to it" then it couldn't have your-- --nose. How perfect does your child have to be?
You hypocrite. Do you think for one moment you'd be doing what you're doing if it wasn't for who you are--what you are? Don't you get any satisfaction knowing that your children will be able to live to a ripe old age unless they do something foolish?
That's precisely what scaresme--that they won't do anything foolish or courageous or anything--worth a Goddamn.

My wife and I--we're thinking of starting a family.
Why not?
These new personality corrections I've been reading about.
You worried about the cost?
Not that.
They said the same thing about myopia and obesity. You think your children would be less human if they were less violent, angry, spiteful? Maybe they'd be more human. From where I sit the world could stand a little improving.

Positive saliva match. The cup was definitely used since the original sweep.
So we have two choices. Either our suspect came back to the murder scene for a drink of water and I don't know anybody that thirsty or... ...he is here. We test again. You're right, Hugo, this was a desperate act. Someone had a lot to lose that night--perhaps their place in line. I'd like the profiles of everyone with an upcoming mission.

Twelve have a mission within the week.
This time I will supervise each test personally.

What is it?
I forgot something--something at home. I'll see you later.

--when you go away.
We could go together one day.

At least it's nothing contagious.
I will not permit any further testing on the eve of a mission. We're already counting backwards.

Hello?
How would you like to be yourself for the day?
I was never very good at it, remember?

Hello.
Jerome--?
Hello, sweatheart. Come on up.

Good to see you're feeling better.
Now you're here. Who are your "friends"?
It's about the Director.
Again?

How are you, Jerome?
Not bad, Jerome.
How the hell did you get here.
I could always walk. I've been faking it.

We found his spit in the dead director's eye. He's signed a confession--supplied us with the suit he wore on the night. What more do you want?
Luca could still be an accomplice.

Hugo! I've found him!
I've found him too.
A fingerprint. There's something to be said for nostalgia. What did you find?

It's not exactly him.
Where did you get this?

So you've finally seen sense and come back to your old job, Vincent.
Not yet, I'm afraid.
No? What's keeping you?
I guess I'm a slow learner.
I guess so. Well, while you're up there, maybe you could tidy the place up a bit.
I'll see what I can do.

And don't go getting everybody lost out there. You'll give us a bad name. You won't have me to keep an eye on you, you know.
By the way, I left some trash in your locker.
I'll take care of it.

You almost sound like you believe that.
Come with me now, Vincent. You've gone as far as you can go.
There are a few million miles to go yet.
It's over.
Is that the only way you can succeed, Anton, to see me fail?
It's for the best.
God, even you want to tell me what I can't do. In case you hadn't noticed, Anton, I don't need rescuing. But you did, once.

Well? You have all the answers. How is that possible?
You didn't beat me that day. I beat myself.
Who are you trying to convince?
I will prove it to you. Come swim with me now, Vincent. Now--tonight.

That's where we get rid of the traces of him although we never truly succeeded.
I've been looking for him. Do you know where he is?
He's probably leaving some more of me around the place before he goes.

Don't be deceived, Irene. These are just the clothes. He has to wear them. Something I could never do.
What's wrong with him?
You have more in common than you know.

How are you doing this, Vincent? How have you done any of this?
Now is your chance to find out.

Vincent, where's the shore? We're too far out. We have to go back!
Too late for that. We're closer to the other side.

A year is a long time.
Not so long--just once around the sun.

I have your samples ready.
Have you forgotten? I don't need any samples where I'm going.
No, but you might need them when you get back.

Why have you done this?
In case you get back before I do.
Where are you going?
I'm travelling too.

Thank you.
I got the better end of the deal. I just lent you my body--you lent me your dream.

What's this, Lamar?
New policy.

Flight got you nervous?
There's a problem, Lamar.
Did I ever tell you about my son, Jerome? He's a big fan of yours. He wants to apply here.

Just remember, Lamar, I could have gone up and back and nobody would have been the wiser--
--Unfortunately my son's not all that they promised. But then, who know what he could do.
<|endoftext|>
