Ed can run fast, talk fast, eat fast, and play cards fast, but he's fucking slow when it comes to spotting the roz.
The reason he is called BACON is he spent so much of his youth in the police station that people thought he was one of them. But he is a big boy now and it is time to move on.

What are you talking about? I am bloody skinny, pal.
Of course you are. All right, Ed.

How much did you say it was, Tom?
You know how much it is, Nick.
And that does include the amp?
You know it doesn't include the amp.

What have you come as?
Cupid stupid! That's the last time I am getting any more fruit off you Tom. Call that fresh? There was more small hairy armoured things in your fruit than there was fruit. You should open a butcher's, not a grocer's.
If you will order stuff that comes from Kat-Man-Fucking-Du don't be surprised if your fruit picks up a few tourists en route. ~ Never mind that, what about the money?
Get your fingers out of my soup!

Soap is called Soap because he likes to keep his hands clean of any unlawful behaviour. He is proud of his job, and even more proud that it's legal.
He's a stroppy sod but he's got more balls than a golfer, only he doesn't know it. ' * Cut from completed film.

Are you sure you can afford twenty-five?
Well that depends on how you look at it. I can afford it as long as I see it again, if that's what you mean. You got the rest from the fat man and Bacon?

Who's this fat man, then?
Bacon, the fat man and myself, and it's time to make a call to Harry.

You got it all?
A hundred grand.

You see it's not easy to take a seat at this table; the money involved has to be a hundred grand upwards and there is no shortage of punters.
The man who decides if you can play is this man Harry, or Hatchet Harry as some including himself like to call him.

When the old bastard is not playing cards he's chasing a thousand debts that ill-fated individuals owe for an array of reasons.
Sex and sleaze and antique shotguns are all deep and dear in Harry's stone cold heart.

Hatchet has a colleague, a monster of a man: Barry the Baptist.
The Baptist got his name from drowning people for Hatchet.

All right, all right, so we can say he is good.
Better than good, he is a fucking liability.
Where did he get a hundred grand?

And JD is his dad, and owns the whole property?
No mortgage, no debts; lock, stock, the sodding lot . . . don't worry, I got it under control.
Good, you can get this under control now.

Er, very nice Harry. What's it for?
Don't play innocent with me Bazza; spanking!

Twenty-five from me, Tom, Soap and yourself; a hundred grand to the pound. You don't need to count it.
I still will, if you don't mind.

So, a reasonable return should be in the region of one hundred and twenty, for twenty-five grand invested. That's going on previous experiences.
That's going on optimism.
Whatever it's going on, it's still enough to send you on a cooking course.
You're not funny Tom; you're fat and look as though you should be funny, but you're not.

Because it's cheap like a budgie.
And nobody wants to live next door to the people that we live next to; a bit anti-social, you know.

What do you mean?
He means they're thieving dogs.

How long has he been in there, son?
About twenty minutes.
Is he on his own?
Just carrying a bag.
Let's have a look, shall we?

It's not him, Dad.
Try that one.

Mind your language in front of my boy.
Jesus Christ!

Did I say speak? And it's Mr Harry to you . . . Now don't disappoint me and chose your words carefully. You may speak.
I'll have it for Mr Harry in a few days. I have been busy, and I am nearly there.
Son, have a look in his locker.
No chance of you lifting this sunbed up is there?

What you telling us for? The only thing I care about is whether you get your rest in.
Tom, you're all heart.
Listen cooky, you want to make sure that man rests before he plays; it's in all our interests.

Chill, Winston, it's me and Charlie can see it's me, so what's the problem?
The problem is, Willy, that Charlie and yourself are not the quickest of cats in the alley at the best of times, so just do as I say and keep the fucking cage locked.

What are you carrying, Willy?
Er, fertilizer.
You went out six hours ago to buy a money counter and you come back carrying two bags of fertilizer. Alarm bells are ringing, Willy.
We need fertilizer, Winston.
We also need a fucking money counter, William! We have to get the money out by Thursday and I'll be buggered if I am counting it . . . and if you have to get your sodding fertilizer, couldn't you be a little more subtle?
What do you mean?
I mean we grow copious amounts of ganja, and you don't look like your average hort-er-fucking-culturalist, that's what I mean, Willy.

What the hell are you doing here?
Why, what's up?
Er, let me guess, my foot in your arse? A game of cards and Hatchet Harry. You're supposed to be getting some rest, boy!

Shotguns? What, like guns that fire shot?
Oh, you must be the brains then. That's right, guns that fire shot . . . Make sure you bring everything from inside the gun cabinet. There will be a load of guns, that's all I want. I'll pay you when you deliver. Everything outside the cabinet you can keep; it's yours.
Oh, thanks very much. And there had better be something there for us.
It's a fucking stately home, of course there'll be something there.

Like what?
Like antiques.
Antiques? What the fuck do we know about antiques? We rob post offices and steal cars, what the fuck do we know about antiques?
If it looks old, it's worth money, simple. So stop fucking moaning and rob the place.

So who's the Guv? Who we doing this for?
You're doing it for me is all you need to know. You only know that because you need to know.
I see, one of those `on a need to know' basis things, like a James Bond film, is it?
Careful, remember who's giving you this job.

I hate these Southern shites.
Fucking Northern monkeys.

Invitations.
Invitations?
Yeah invitations, you know a pretty white piece of paper with your name on it.
Well we have got about a hundred thousand pretty pieces of paper with the Queen on it. Will that do?
All right, just you; the others can wait in Samoan Jo's next door.
Samoan Jo's? Yon mean the pub? Hold on . . .
Hold on bollocks, no one but card players in here tonight sonny, and I do mean no one.

You must be Eddy. JD's son.
Yup, you must be Harry? Sorry, I didn't know your father.
Never mind son, you just might meet him if you carry on like that.

What's that?
A cocktail, you asked for a cocktail.
No, I asked you to give me a refreshing drink. I wasn't expecting a fucking rainforest; you could fall in love with an orang-utan in that.
You want a pint, go to the pub.
I thought this was a pub.
It's a Samoan pub.
Well whatever it is, could you get your man to turn the TV down?
You ask him if you like, but I would leave him to it if I was you.

OK Gary, we call each other Kenny, all right?
All right, Kenny.

Can't you pull that stocking down further, Kenny?
It just cost me fifty quid to have this done. If you think I am going to ruin it for a couple of old bastards you're mistaken, Kenny.

I thought you said no staff, Bazza!
You get the guns?
You should see what they did to poor Gary.

That is quite a raise, one hundred and fifty on my hundred.
Yes . . . and is there something else you want to say? EDDY

I will.
You will what?
I will loan you the money.

I think I would rather just turn them over.
I am not interested in what you would rather; I want to keep going. I am also offering you the money, so we don't have to turn them over because you can borrow.
I need two hundred and fifty grand.
No, you need five hundred grand to see me.

That's if I want to see you.
Well, you're going to have a problem carrying on, aintcha.

I'll see ya.
For half a million?
Unless you are going to accept twenty quid.
And still got a sense of humour. That's not monkey nuts son; you can still fold. OK, before I loan you this, I expect, if you lose of course, my money back within a week, Crystal? That's Sunday, OK?

I'll kill him!
Stop fucking around, Tom, and think. What are we going to do?

Let me tell you about Hatchet Harry. Once there was this geezer called Smithy Robinson who worked for Harry. It was rumoured that he was on the take. Harry invited Smithy round for an explanation. Smithy didn't do a very good job. Within a minute Harry lost his temper and reached for the nearest thing at hand, which happened to be a fifteen-inch black rubber cock. He then proceeded to batter poor Smithy to death with this; that was seen as a pleasant way to go . . . Hence, Hatchet Harry is a man you pay if you owe.
I'll think of something, don't worry.

The odds are one hundred to one so all we need is five grand.
I would rather put my money on a three-legged rocking horse. The odds are a hundred to one for a good reason, BACON . . . it won't win. So where is Ed with all the bright ideas?
At the bottom of a bottle and has been for two days; it's hit him hard.
It's hit us all hard!
Yeah, but he has got to tell his Dad he is about to lose his bar.

So how long do you have to wait 'till you see a return?
Probably no longer than four weeks.
A month? So, my friend, what fucking good is that, if we need it in six . . . no, five days?
Well, it's still a good idea.

So do you know these geezers well?
Well enough. I have been buying gear off one of them for a couple of years.
What they like then?
Poofs. Nothing heavy, four public school guys. Soft as shite.

There's one steel gate as you go in but they never lock it.
What do you mean, never? Well what have they got it for, then?
I must have been there fifty times, it's never been locked; they're not suspicious. Everybody who goes there are toffs. They're all into that karma crap: `If I don't harm nobody, nobody harms me' stuff.
Is there no way they can get back to you?
Even if they could they'd be too shit scared. They have got no muscle; they're gutless faggots.

Well, what do you want us to do about it?
Hit the fuckers.

I don't know how you've reached that conclusion.
They can't report they have had all their drugs and money nicked, can they?

What was that, armed? What do you mean, armed? Armed with what?
Er, bad breath, colourful language and a feather duster! . . . What do you think they will be armed with? Guns, you tit!
Guns! You never said anything about guns. A minute ago this was the safest job in the world, now it's turning in to a bad day in Bosnia . . .
Jesus, Soap, stop being such a mincer. I thought about that and...

And we will just have to find out who's going to be carrying them.
Carrying them. They could all be carrying them for what we know.
No, just one of them is in charge of them going to the job. So I assume he will still

Oh, you assume, do ya? What do they say about assumption being the brother of all fuck-ups?
It's the mother of fuck-ups, stupid!
Well, excuse me, brother, mother or any other sucker, doesn't make any difference, they are still fucking guns, and they still fire fucking bullets!

Not normal weed. This is some fucked-up skunk class A. I can't think let alone move shit.
Doesn't sound very good to me.
Neither me, but it depends on what flicks your switch, and the light's on and burning bright for the masses.

Jews don't celebrate Christmas, Tom.
Never mind that now. I also need some artillery, you know, a couple of sawn-off shotguns.
Bloody hell, Tom! This is a bit heavy. This is London, not the Lebanon' Who do you think I am?
I think you're Nick the Greek.

Next time we do a job like this we gonna want more money, or we are going back to post offices and cars.
Where're the others?

There are no others.
Now, stop fucking around. The others, the old ones?
I don't know what you mean.
There were two old guns there; where are they?
Not in the cabinet there wasn't. There was a couple of old hammer-lock muskets the butler was carrying; they were ours, and we sold 'em!

Well you just better un-sell 'em, sharpish.
They were . . .
I am not fucking interested.

Jesus, if I pick them up, will they stay in one piece? Where did you get them from?
I got contacts. Listen Tom, if you pointed them at me I'd shit myself or do whatever you said to do. Either way you still get the desired effect.
They look nice, I agree . . . but lacking in criminal credibility, aren't they? I might get laughed at. How much do you want for these muskets?
Seven hundred each.

Sawn-offs are out, Tom; people like to have a bit mare range nowadays.
Range? I don't want to blow the arse out of this country, granted, but I don't want anybody blowing a raspberry at me either. I want to look fucking mean.
Of course you will look mean, Tom, you will look really scary.
All right, let's forget about them for the time being. What about your weed man?
Rory Breaker is standing by. You stand to make a lot of money, Tommy boy.

Go on.
I like your bar.
Yes?
I want your bar.
And?
Do you want me to draw a picture?
Harry, that boy doesn't know his arsehole from his ear-hole, or you from a hoodwink. This bar is mine, and he has nothing to do with it.
What, and I care? Remember, you do have the luxurious advantage of being able to sustain your son's life.
And you do have a reputation, so I'll choose my words carefully. But not to put too fine a point on it, fuck yourself, Harry!

There's nothing to worry about, it's going to be easy.
There is no such thing as easy in my experience and, if you think this is going to be easy, you're a dick. It may be easier than most but it's not going to be easy.

What's that idiot doing next door? We use your van. It's up some stairs this place, so we'll stick out like balls on a bulldog. Plank is going up first. There is a cage but it is never locked, is it Plank?
No.
And it better bloody not be. Once he is firmly in place, he gets the rest of us in. We'll get nasty with a couple of them, shit 'em up, scare and gag 'em. I can't see these wankers giving us a problem, but they might have a couple of tools hanging around like any cowboy. When the job is done we'll come straight back here. It's dark by then, unload and Robert's your father's brother. Everybody savvy?

Yes?
It's happening tomorrow morning. Get back here now.

Where did you get those from, a museum?
Nick the Greek.

How much did you part with?
Seven hundred for the pair.

Drachmas, I hope. I would feel safer with a chicken drumstick. They could do more harm than good.
Jesus, Tom, do they work?

I dunno, but they look nice. I rather like ' em.
Top of the list of priorities, how nice they look.

Is there something we should know about you, Soap?
I am not sure what's more worrying, the job or your past.

Where the fuck are they going? To butcher a sheep? I thought this was a robbery.
Where did they get those outfits from? Haven't we got some like that, Tom?

Hello, can I help you?
All right, it's Plank. Is Willie there?
No, I'm afraid he's not. He's out at the moment.
Well, perhaps you can help?
Well, perhaps I can't, Plank, if you know what I mean.
Look, could you just open the door so I could talk without shouting?
I can't help you, Plank.
I think you'll find it is in your interest.
Hold on. OK. Look Willie, it's Plank outside asking for you, he says it's in our interest.

Willy, this is the last time, and don't let him know that you're here, otherwise he will be here all day, and get rid of him quick. We have work to do.
What the fuck is going on?

I thought you were going to leave me out there all day.
I didn't know you were a kebab man, Plank.
Lives and learns doesn't one.

Sorry, got to do business like this now; can't be too careful these days.
I know. Now shut it. You say a fucking word the right knee goes, another word then your left.
What are you doing, Plank?
What do you think I am doing? Hold on. What are you doing? Unlock that gate. Oi! I said unlock that fucking gate.

Just hold on, I got the keys.

What the fuck did you do to Fauntleroy?
I didn't touch him, he just passed out.

J, what's going on out there? Get the rifle out, Charles. We're being fucked.
Get the sodding gate open now, Plank.

It must be this one.
Just give me the keys.

Don't you stags move or I'll kill the lot of ya.
Who are you going to kill Plank? There's no one there.

Right, his leg's going now.
All right, all fucking right, I am coming. Willie, he doesn't know you are here, just sort something out, OK.

And all your friends, there's a good lad.
There is only three of us here.
Do you want me to take his leg off? Where's the fourth?
I mean it, there is only three of us here.
Plank?

Yeah, one of them's out.
OK, open the gate.

Where?
Out the back.
And the weed?
Out the back.

You got a ticket already and, if you don't move it now, sir, we will move it for you.
I'll only be a minute.
You've already been fifteen.

Look. Go on, look.
At what, exactly?
My van is half full.
So?
So I've just got to put you in, and I am off.

My neck, Dog. That's the last bag?
How about you? All right?

Everything all right out there, Tom?
Right as rain.
Where the hell are we supposed to hide?

No I fucking don't! You can't make a cup of tea, Edward.
Why not? The whole of the British Empire was built on cups of tea.
And look what happened to that.
If you think I am going to war without one, you're mistaken, mate.

Of course you will, sweetheart. This one, search this one. Ed finds the keys without any trouble.
I'll meet you in the van when you have finished with handsome there.

Well Jesus, that wasn't so bad, was it?
When the bottle in my arse has contracted I'll let you know.

Bacon, see what we got.
Let's have a butcher's. Jesus, there's lots of everything. We've got god knows how much of this stinking weed; we've got a shit load of cash; and we've got a . . . traffic warden.

A what?
A traffic warden. Look, what's this?

I think he's still alive. He's got claret coming out of him somewhere. What did they want with a traffic warden?
I dunno, but I don't think we need him. Dump him at the lights.

It's about time you give my young friends a visit, Chris. Tomorrow is the day and mum seems to be the word, and I can't have that now, can I, Chris?
No Harry, you can't.

That's it all done, we are off.
You think it's a good idea taking it back to yours?
There is nowhere else to keep it, and it's the last place they are going to look. Anyway the battle's over and the war is won.

What's left over?'
Hold on, give us half a chance to count it.
What about all the gear?

I want you to search the house for bugs. I mean I want you to strip it.
What is the point in that? Even if it was a bug they would have taken it with 'em.
It is too late for you to start thinking John. It is a possibility and that is good enough for me. And after you strip the house, I want you to get every thieving slag this side of Ceylon and torture them, badly. I want to know who is responsible, otherwise I will hold you responsible.

So we have a bit of a problem, don't we?
Er well, yes we do.
In fact it is a little more than a bit of a problem, isn't it? You could say that in the scale of these things this is the Mount fucking Everest of problems, couldn't you? . . . And the reason it is such a mon fucking-strosity of a problem is because you don't have the first fucking idea who did this to us, do you?

Scarface, I have watched Scarface. You want to know how to do a drug deal, you watch Scarface!
That inspires confidence, that does.

This guy Rory Breaker can afford to do the deal at the price we are selling. It's not worth him giving us trouble; he knows we would be a pain in the arse, and who wants a pain in the arse?
I would take a pain in the arse for half a million.
You would take a pain n the arse full stop.
Tom, the fatter you get, the sadder you get.

Yeah?
That's no way to answer the phone.
Is that you, Dean?
Sure is.
What can I do for you?
You know those shotguns I sold ya, well I need 'em back.
Not likely I am afraid; I don't think I'll be seeing them again.
I got the money to pay for 'em.
I am sure you do, but I don't think you understand; I am not going to see them or the guns again.

You fucking well have to get 'em!
We made a deal for everything inside the cabinet.
Inside, out-fuckin'-side. I don't give a shit, you get those guns because if you don't . . .
Yeah, Bazza, what?
You heard of Harry Lonsdale? Otherwise known as Back-you-up with-a- Hatchet Harry, infamous for his removal of digits?

Who was that?
That was Hatchet Horrible Harry.
Jesus, I have heard about him.
We're in the spite. They were his fucking guns that we sold; we gotta find 'em.

Dog, I have found the cash!
The stupid bastards! Count it!
Shit, Dog, there's a lot. Don't you want to do this next door?
We're not going next door until we've flayed these dead men walking. Count it out the back. I don't want them seeing you fingering that money as soon as they walk in.
But... Give it us here, you dozy sod. You hide and get the guns ready. Wait until they are well in, then give it to 'em.

There's six black cocks sitting on the side of the road. How many beaks have they got between them?
Six.
How many wings have they got between them?
Twelve.
How many feet?
Er, well, twelve.
That's right. So how many whiskers has the little white kitten got?
How the fuck should I know?
How come you know so much about black cocks and so little about white pussy?]

The money, the gear!
That's fucked it. What do we do now? No money, no weed; it's all been swapped for a pile of corpses.
OK, don't panic; let's think about this.

Hello, John. Nice holiday?
I won't be seeing you again Chris; I have paid him every last penny.
I am sure you have, no one was accusing you of being dishonest, John.

The boys had 'em. I know you like these things; wondered if you wanted them?
Er, yeah, sure, I'll have 'em.

Have you counted the money?
Yeah, it's all there, to the pound.
They were going to pay, then?
It looks like t, but who knows? The opportunity was there. In my experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
Good job, Chris.

We gotta get those guns.
This is dangerous shit, Dean; we don't even know who lives in there.
Listen, I don't care who lives in there; all as I know it's got to be preferable to death by Hatchet.
Furry muff, let's go.

I hope this is the right move.
It's either that, my old boy's place, and we lose a digit daily. I am going to call him.

He'll care all right. That was going to be his money. Whether he cares about us is different. Pass your phone.
Think about what you're going to say, Ed; we are on thin ice.

That you, boy?
It's Ed, if that's what you mean.
It's pay day, ain't it?
I wanted to talk to you about that.
I bet you did. I have got half a million nicker sitting in front of me, which means that some poor sod doesn't. You must have upset a few people, boy . . . but that isn't really my concern, is it? But what does concern me is the guns you had. I want to talk to you about that. Get your arse over here now, and I do mean now!

Well?
Well what?

Well, what did he say?
He said he thinks we have paid him, and he wants to talk about those guns . . . now.

You what? What are you on about?
Listen, if he has the guns he might have the money . . . I think we should go and see him.

You and me, Tom.
What do you mean, me?

Tom, this is our case.
. . . What?
This is our money, Tom! . . . Now I think we should go.

Tom, don't mess around, let's go.
I'11 meet you in the car.
Tom?
I'll only be a minute.

Son?
Made a few quid, did ya? Now where is it?

You all right back there, mate?
Very fucking funny. Where's what I want?
It's in an office; I have just left it in the office. 137
Well, you had better go and get it from the office. That's if you want to see your son reach his next birthday. Now chop-fuckin'-chop.
All right, furry muff.

What are you doing?
Well, it's a five minute walk or a thirty second drive.
You had better be careful.

Well, what's going on?
I don't know, but what I do know is that there's no more Harry, which means there's no more debt, and if there's no more debt there's no more problem, and there's no more problem with our neighbours because they are all dead. I think, if I get this right, we haven't done anything wrong anyway, which means we are in the clear.

The traffic warden went to the morgue and recognized Dog and his lot so that put us sort of in the clear. They got no case against us because there is no evidence against us.
Apart from those shotguns.
And Tom took care of them.

I wanted to talk to you about that.
Well, talk.
Well not exactly, no; I got 'em sitting in the car, actually; I thought we might sell them back to the Greek, but I am having a bit of a problem getting hold of him.

The only item that connects us with the crime is sitting in your car which is sitting outside?
We paid seven hundred quid for those guns. They could hardly trace them to you, could they?

I don't think we will take the risk for seven hundred quid.
Tom, go and throw those guns off a bridge.

JD.
Chris. You come to collect something, Chris? Should I have something for you?
Nope.
Can I help?
I think I can help you, as it happens.
Yes?
I have got something for ya. Well, for your boy, actually.
Well, I suggest you speak to him, then.

That should take care of that lot. We are now officially in the money- loaning business, all right, son?
All right, Dad.
Well, put your seatbelt on then.

There's nothing in it!
What do you mean?
I mean it's fucking empty.
<|endoftext|>
