Why are you doing this to me?
I know, Maya, but you'll understand when you see this man. I really need your strength.

Good seeing you again.
Whish the circumstances were different.

Your court order, Dr. Allen.
You know I'm not comfortable with this.
But your patient is legally entitled to it.
This patient has been plagued with temporal lobe seizures.
It's the patient's request, doctor.
I'm aware of that, but I don't think he's in any condition to make requests. I'm trying to appeal to your more...logical self, Father. I'm concerned about harm to my patient.
Father Jeremy and Deacon John Townsend of St. Ursula's, and our associate, Maya Larkin. Secular assistants are permitted if regarded as qualified. Maya is eminently qualified.
I think I should join you.

-- you wouldn't last five minutes.
Just open the door, please.

Yes.
And how would you describe him?
Quiet. Real quiet...
And on the day of the murders, his state of mind?
Seemed...on edge.
On the day of the murders what did the defendant request?
He asked to go home early. He said he was bothered by all the people who kept telling him what to do.
Tell the jury how many people work in that office with you and Mr. Viznick.
Just me.

Mr. Kelson, here's the stuff you wanted on pathological narcissism.
What about that psychic, what's his name, Szabo?
He can see you Thursday.
I think it's gonna be a waste of time.
The police used him as a witness in this case.
I'll be at Bedford tonight, if you need me.
Nice suit.

Hey! Mr. big shot.
Mike. Oh, the christening. I meant to call...
Yeah, right. I don't know why I bothered inviting you guys. I knew you wouldn't show.

So, Viznick's got a meet with his lawyer in the ayem.
Really? You know, seeing these guys away from the court, the facade slips. You catch things.
Yeah, yeah. I've heard it before. Just be sure you spell my name right. Nine o'clock?

What's this?
So you can see where you're going when you crawl up his asshole.

As a part of today's story on the trial of mass murderer George Viznick, we welcome Peter Kelson, author of the current best-seller, VICIOUS INTENT. Thank you for joining us, Peter.
Thanks for having me, Sally.
Peter, you're now writing a book about the Viznick case. You seem to be making a career of studying sensational murderers. I have to ask, how does it make you feel when you sit in courtrooms day after day, face to face with alleged killers?
Well, long-term exposure to things like this tends to give you a sort of clinical understanding of the subject. After awhile, you begin to make friends with it, so to speak.
It's as if you are saying the closer you get to evil, the less evil it becomes.
No, the less mystifying. Good and evil are only illusions. There is no such thing as evil with a capital "E." That suggests some third party bad guy pulling all the strings.
You're referring to the defense's efforts to prove that George Viznick is tormented by "demonic voices?"
There weren't any voices.
Not even from some mental illness, as the prosecution asserts?
As if there's another cause for little voices? No, Sally, Viznick's a manipulator, he's clever, he has what I call malignant narcissism.
What do you mean by that?
Well, we all have a degree of narcissism, Sally, but a malignant narcissist is dangerously self-obsessed.
Are you saying he's legally sane?
Well, George Viznick is in the grayest of gray areas in the sanity spectrum. Viznick is not psychotic. He's simply unable to submit to any higher authority.
Meaning, Viznick's a man who answers to no one. Not even God.
Right. If you believe in God. As a narcissist, Viznick couldn't blame himself for the alleged murders. He created the voices after the fact. In order to avoid the simple truth that there is no outside force that guides George Viznick and that George Viznick needs to pay.
And what about you? What about Peter Kelson? Where is your moral compass?

Would you sign it for me?
Of course.

I missed you.
Do you think they have a room here?

How'd your interview go? I'm sure you charmed the hell out of Sally.
She's a talk show host. They can't be charmed. By definition.

How're you doing? Looking lovely as always.
You ready?

Between your book sales and this TV thing, there's going to be no living with you. And let me guess, you boiled God down to a conceit.
You know how I feel. The world is random. The only certainty I believe in is death.
Given all that's happened, I understand. The world is random, but then there's faith. Where are you in death without it?

What a...jerk!
Peter, are you okay?

It's great of you to let William and Susan stay at the house until he gets on his feet.
It's Susan's cooking, Claire. That's why Uncle James lets them stay.

Nonsense, it's all of our home. So how's work treating you?
Frustrating. Form over content. Everything's so retro.
Well, if Peter here would hop off his laurels long enough to marry you...

...you wearing a watch, Father?
Yes. It's exactly...

Oh my God!
...as a narcissist, he couldn't blame himself. He created the voices after the fact.

Hello?
I know who he is.
Maya? What do you mean?
I'll explain everything later. Can you meet me tonight?

You know, I made a reservation at Marco's for Peter's birthday dinner, but maybe you should cater it.
What time did you make it for?
Eight. That okay?

You never said anything to me...
It's probably trivial.

And what are you thinking we should do now?
I've filed a report with Father Frank.
A lot of good that'll do.
We need all the help we can get.
I've dealt with these people before, Maya. They're not going to help us.
We'll see Father Frank in the morning. There's nothing to be done until then.
Alright, Maya. We'll do it your way.

I don't mean to belittle you, but we've been through this before. Satan is not what you think he is. Satan is not some creature.
You weren't there. Give me time to get some proof.
Please, Maya. I'm trying to get us into the next century and you insist on this medieval nonsense.
If you really believe in God, why is it so inconceivable that his enemy is just as real?
Maya, for the last time, I will not tolerate these obsessions.

...the ark sank, the sun set, the ark sank again.
Father, I'm right here.
...the ark sank, the sun set, the ark sank again...

The doctor's concerned he may never come out of this dementia.
He will. He has great faith.
But bad judgement. And now you see how dangerous the consequences can be.

It's useless...look at him.
You can't back out on me now. We need to be sure.
Sure of what? Who cares if this guy is devoid of faith or sleeps over a pentacle? Results are what Lareaux would want.

You don't want to face it.
Look, John, I'm facing it.
I'm not waiting until it's too late.

Is he going to be okay?
I hope so.

Hi, I'd like to make an appointment for Peter Kelson.
Kelson, hold on a second...

I took one of those home pregnancy tests, but I don't want to tell him. I'm RH negative. My blood type is negative... If he's RH positive, I'll have to terminate.
How many weeks are you honey/
Thirteen. The last time, can you believe it? This is how he says "Goodbye?"
You need his blood-type. Like right away.
Well I know he's come here before.
What's his name?
Peter...Peter Kelson.
You just call?
I didn't know what else to do...

Two negatives always make a positive.
Oh, thank you, thank you so much!

I plan to. You want a tip?
Lemme guess. The lottery.
Sometimes I can just feel the numbers.
You know what they say. You have the same chance of winning whether you play or not.
You watch. One day, I'll hit the jackpot, get the big house, car, clothes. I'll have more money than God.

May I help you?
Peter Kelson?
Yes... and you are?
I saw you on television yesterday. You were brilliant.
Thank you. Do you work in the building? You coming from the party?

You said that malignant narcissism was not evil.
Not pure evil. That's correct.
And also that...
Listen, I'm sorry, but I'm running late.
That there is no such thing as evil with a capital "E."
Not the most popular opinion, but yes.
What if I told you I was a malignant narcissist?

A narcissist doesn't admit it. It's the extreme of self-denial.
And I also believe in God and the Devil. In fact, I know they exist.
Well, by saying that, you're acknowledging the existence of a higher power. Which, to a narcissist, is impossible.
I murdered my parents, Mr. Kelson. And while they deserved it, I still went to confession the following Sunday.

Ooooooh-kayyyyyy.
In the end, the jury saw it my way.
Well, then it all seems to be working out for you. Listen, Ms...?
Do you remember Henry Birdson? The math professor who won the Salwen Medal, then went home and killed his family?
What's that got to do with you?
Last week the Catholic Church certified him as genuinely possessed. You realize how rarely they make that ruling?
I do.
An exorcism was just held for Birdson. It failed. Disastrously. Which means there's still a demonic spirit present in his body. I was wondering, perhaps you'd like to go meet Henry. He's pretty amazing.
I'll bet.
On television, you seemed so sure of yourself. If you're really that confident, you'd be willing to let someone prove you wrong?
The world would be so much simpler if it were all just about good and evil. Unfortunately I find it much more slippery and elusive place.
Well, I think it's very simple. Here's a tape of Birdson's exorcism. I'll be at the Public Library. Tomorrow at 2... if you want to meet him.

Shi... Sorry, honey. I was having the weirdest dream.
Bad?
Weird. The book again. Sex spelled backwards...
I must really be slacking off. Hungry?
Uh...sure...I...what?
Sushi.

I can't believe it's already starting to get dark so early.
Hmmm.
You know, there was a guy on the radio today trying to explain why we're losing daylight. Quarks and dark matter, things like that. Even how daylight savings has caught up with us over the last hundred years and our universal watch is just fast, you know?

Peter, where are you?
Sorry. It's just...a strange woman waltzes into my office today. Tells me she murdered her parents and can prove Satan exists.
Did she waltz in or fly on little bat wings?
Says she can get me in to see this killer.
Now that you're on TV, you're a magnet for all the wackos out there.

Oh, Peter, you're going to pursue this.
No. Of course not. Mmmm. Anago. My favorite.

George, come in. What the hell happened to you?
It's nothing.
Sure it is. If the guards did this, we can file charges.
Not the guards. Some of the prisoners are easily disturbed.
You have to tell me who did it.

I can take care of myself.
I'm gonna go make a stink. Sit tight. I'll make sure you get a change of clothes.

Seems George isn't making too many friends in lockup.
Yeah, look at that sweet face. You'd never guess he killed nine people. I'm gonna get my smokes. Be right back.
You're too old to smoke. Won't be able to shoot hoops with your grandkid.

What's the matter with you?
He's looking right at me.

He could see me.
I'll quit, maybe you should start.

Hey, what are you doing here in the middle of the day?
Forgot my car keys. What are you doing on the fourth floor?
I spaced out.
Well, it's a nice surprise. Should I hit the "stop" button?

So...what did you think of the tape.
I think you gave me the wrong one.
What do you mean?
It was blank. Nothing on it. You gave me the wrong one.

You're sure? There was nothing?
I cranked it all the way up. Nothing but hum.

So what'd I miss?
You're right. I must've made a mistake.

Mr. Kelson, what a pleasure to meet you. I have to say your instincts about the criminally insane are impeccable. I am a fan.
Quite a compliment coming from you, doctor.

When your secretary called, she made no mention of her coming, too.
My secretary?
You're aware that this woman was party to the so-called exorcism.
No, I wasn't, actually.
You should know I never felt Mr. Birdson needed anything but professional psychiatric care. And then, minutes after they left, he suffered a stroke. He's comatose. No brain wave activity at all.

So you don't believe his condition is the result of anything supernatural?
Of course not. They put him through severe mental stress. Causing this aneurysm.

Dr. Allen, could you please tell Mr. Kelson what you heard as you tried to enter Mr. Birdson's room?
I certainly hope you're not lending any credence to this.
What did you hear?

The patient was in great distress. Naturally he was...yelling.
And was he in distress when you opened the door? Or was he sitting here, relaxed, at this table?
There is a medical explanation for everything that happened.
You heard voices, you know you did.

Where do you get off pretending to be my secretary?
I had to.
And this is evil? The guy had an aneurysm and now he's in a coma.
That's their explanation. You might not believe me...
Well, why should I? Alright, what's your name, where do you live, when did you kill your parents?

Thanks for handling this.
Sure thing. Look, I've got enough, between your preliminary statements and all the witness accounts. You can go home. Gimme til morning. Find out who he is. Until then, don't sweat it, huh? Just your random bad cheese trying to hole you.

Thanks again for everything.
Hey, don't thank me. Somebody up there likes you.

What? That's horrible!
What happened?

Yeah, I appreciate it. Thanks, Josef.
When did they find her?

I'm still shaking.
I can't believe Will killed him.
Thank God he did.

What is it?
Something he said, just before...
He spoke to you?
Yeah. It didn't make any sense.
Listen to me, Peter. You can't let the ravings of a madman disturb you, okay?
You're right, but it's funny. All my life I thought I was simply a man who didn't believe in any of it.
No matter, my son, he believes in you.
But it's true. I have no faith. It's strange. When that gun was pointed at my face tonight, I was surprised, but never frightened. It was as if I knew nothing could possibly happen to me and...in that one moment I didn't care about anything. Not eve my own life.
Peter. Your life must matter to you because it matters to all of us who love you.
You know, I respect that you have such faith, James. I don't understand it, but I want you to know that despite our differences, I admire you and I always will.

Yeah.
It's Detective Smythe.

What's up?
How're you doin' today?
It's another day. I think I'm alright.
You got the right attitude, anyway, look, we gotta talk.

She came to me with a wild story about demonic possession.
She's got a juvenile record from New Orleans. Parents died when she was 13.
Parents died?
Yeah, murder-suicide.
What happened?
Mother killed the father, then killed herself. Crime of passion.
She told me she killed them.
Not what the records show. Anyway, she was a runaway, arrests for vandalism, petty theft, drugs, the whole bit. Parole records show she graduated from community college, moved into a retreat house, teaches some classes at the seminary school, hasn't been in any trouble since.

We hauled her in earlier but didn't have anything hard to tie her to Townsend. Far as the priest goes, he won't be bothering you. Suffered a complete mental breakdown, during - get this - during an exorcism.
Where is she now?
Had to let her go. I see you thinkin' there, superstar. Don't.

We need to talk.
Peter, please...

Last night a guy named John Townsend tried to shoot me and now I find out you knew him. What the fuck is going on?
Please, the children.

Why did he try to kill me?
Townsend believed, just as God became man in Christ. So Satan will assume human form. I believe it too.

And the point is?
At the exorcism, Birdson boasted that Satan is about to take over the body of a man. You are that man, Peter.
What?!?!
It's true. Birdson knew your name, he was writing it in numerical code. It wasn't easy but I figured it out. It spelled your name.
Why didn't Birdson just say so?
If you're possessed, you can't reveal anything Satan wants hidden. Unless you trick him.
Trick him.
The good outwitting the bad. It's like Birdson had a split personality.
You should think about getting professional help.
You're already contaminated. It's why you couldn't hear the tape. There's probably a pentacle near your bed. To sanctify you.
I'm not going to be drawn into this.
I know this sounds crazy. I understand. Check your parents' blood types. Are you sure your parents are your birth parents?
My parents are dead. Don't even think of bringing them into this.

You're about to become the anti-Christ who is born unholy and becomes the door to eternal suffering in this world.
If you or any of your lunatic friends ever come near me again...

I've had it. Townsend's dead. The police are calling and now I see you having a scene in front of the children. I'm sorry, Maya, you've been with us for many years, but effective immediately, I'm rescinding your right to live at the church.
Father, I have nowhere else to stay.
You have a sister in New Orleans.

I'm gonna have to get a restraining order. What a nightmare.
I don't know. In a way, I'm glad it all happened.

You're glad somebody tried to kill me?
No, of course not, but I think now that this has happened, a lot of things can start to come out...
Yeah, like...
Like you need to admit that losing your parents when you were twelve was traumatic.
It's with me all the time, Claire, I just don't like to talk about it.
Well, it shattered your faith in everything.
I'm just temporarily off my game.
You need to believe in something besides yourself.
I believe in you.

Good of you to stop by.
We millionaires yet?

I'd appreciate it if you'd put that back.
You are the younger of two...

But she worships you. Your mother's dead but your father's alive.
Nothing you couldn't find out from reading the papers. And you're already wrong on one count.
Viznick will get off and Michael's got a crush on you.

You know what? You can go.
Suit yourself. But does this mean anything to you?

You do know, don't you. That these are also numbers. Greek numbers, 600, 60 and 6 - or 666. The sign of the Devil.
Get out of here.
Goodbye.

I don't understand what's going on.
There's no reason why you should. This has been planned from your birth. You fit all the criteria that we know of. Never baptized, born of incest, devoid of faith...
But I was baptized. And I certainly wasn't born of incest.
You were not baptized. At least I don't believe it was Christian. Your baptism was performed by your uncle, James McKenzie.
Yes, I know.
The only baptism he ever performed in seven years as pastor at Bedford.
So what?
Seven years. One baptism? He's your mother's only brother
Yes.

Do you know your parents' blood types?
I looked at the coroner's report. My father's O positive and my mother...A negative.
Peter, your blood-type is AB negative. There's no way your birth father can be O positive. You father is not who you think he is.
So...then the coroner's report is probably wrong. I mean...this is ridiculous. There's been a mistake. I don't believe any of this.
Then why are you here?

Peter, I believe your baptism was perverted. Look at your certificate. Your mother was the only witness to it. Your blood-type doesn't match who you thought your father was. Peter...I'm sorry.
And if what you're saying is true, what would happen to me?
I don't know. I do know that people who are possessed have to accept evil in some way. I don't know if it works the same way in this instance. I don't even know when it's going to happen.

When Townsend tried to kill me, he said something strange like... "The time of transformation is near..."
Townsend, he had some of Father's books.

What are you looking for exactly?
The books themselves or maybe some pages he ripped out.

We needed to know all we could.
I'm going to look around.

Nothing yet.
I'll go outside and take a look in the garage.

Get up!!
What's the...OH SHIT!

Peter, let go of the chair!
What?

You okay?
When's your birthday?
What?

Hang on, get it up, go on, higher.
Your 33rd birthday. The transformation will be a perversion of Christ's rising from the dead. Townsend discovered it in one of Lareaux's books.

It'll happen at the exact time of your birth.
That can't be right. My birthday's tomorrow.

He couldn't stop us and that's how he was punished. Peter, what time were you born?
I don't know. Probably have a copy of my birth certificate...my apartment.

There's nothing else here.
What's the bible for?
Comfort.

Are you alright?
Sometimes, when I feel weak, I have these...visions.
What do you mean?
I see things. My worst fears. You need to know something, Peter. I was possessed once. Like Birdson. It took Father Lareaux six days to pull me out of it.

I'm scared I'm slipping back.
We're going to do this.
You have to say that.
That's true.

Why did you lie to me about your parents' deaths?
I was desperate. I knew you wrote about murders. I needed a way in.

Close call. For the first time in a long time, it's really hitting me. Life's tenuous.
I know it is. Right after my parents died, I went to the beach... I was in the water. Everything was calm. And then one of those really big waves hit me. Hard. Pulled me straight to the bottom. I struggled and finally ran out of air. If it hadn't been for my sister who pulled me out, I would've drowned. Legally dead for a couple of minutes is what they told me.
No oxygen to the brain.
Maybe that's my problem.
Why didn't you just go along with Townsend. Get rid of me. I would've...
Until it happens, you're still a human being.
What about after?
Only your body will remain. I believe your soul will be at peace. If we kill you, Satan can't stay.

Plenty of time.
What are these?
I don't know. Extra apartment keys. What's it matter?
Maybe I should check Lareaux's book. It's in the car. Be right back. Don't go anywhere.
Sure.

There you are! My God, darling, I've been so worried. Are you alright?
Claire...
This is the person...you were talking about?

What're these?
I don't know. What are they?
I found them in your file box.
Must be a spare set.
I thought the spare set was in the kitchen drawer.

Honey, you're exhausted. Do you want to lie down for a little while?
I found the pentacle.

She's been stalking you, Peter.
So you're going to kill her? Put the gun down Claire.

Listen to me, I love you, Peter, I'm trying to protect you!
You really had me going, Claire. I was finally ready to propose to you.
We're still going to be together.

Father! Thank God you're better! I really need your help. We've only got a few more hours.
Don't worry...about the transformation, Maya.
What do you mean "don't worry?"
Well, in my prayers, I realized we've been fooling ourselves and probably... blown this all out of proportion. God would never allow anything like that to happen.

So...we won?
Yes. We won, that's right.

We won because Christ...triumphed over Satan?
Um hm. That's right, Maya.
So, if Christ won, that means, what does that mean, Father? That Satan...
Would you like to rest, Miette? You must be exhausted.

So I guess Satan lost. Satan is the weak one.
Miette, come here and relax.

What can I do?
You have to be experienced to do this. Just wait outside. Otherwise, you risk killing him.

You'll do it?
I don't have the experience. Father Thomas should officiate.

Father, please don't die.
...art sank, sun set, ark sank again...

I'll be all right. Peter, at the very end, I think Father was back. I saw it in his eyes.
So, what does it mean. The ark sank and the sun set?
He's been repeating that since Birdson's exorcism. I looked in every passage in the Bible and there's nothing about an ark or a sunset that tells us anything.
What did he say to you in French?
That's his, I don't know, his 'grounding' phrase for me, "together, no matter what."
Terrific.

He was trying to tell me something.
And his message was "Together, no matter what?"

Book five, Deuteronomy, chapter seven, verse five. "But this shall you deal with them. You shall break down their altars and burn their graven images with fire."
And what's that mean?

You fucking bastard.
Don't you get it? They had their 2,000 years. Now it's our turn.
So all that bullshit about God and faith.
It was perfect. The harder I pushed, the more you pulled away.
You lied to me my whole life. Everything you said, everything you did.
Everything I did, I did for you. I love you, Peter. Think of it. I'm giving you a gift, absolute power and knowledge.
You raised me, like a son.
You are my son. Don't you see the opportunity that lies before you?
You killed my parents.
I had to. There was no other way. Their deaths were part of the greatest legacy I could have given you.

How much time do we have?
Not a lot.

Oh, Peter.
It's me. Put the gun down. Maya...
<|endoftext|>
