I don't feel anything.
Come on, it's graduation.
Did you see what Mr Carroll wrote in my yearbook? Well, he ridiculed me all year long, and then he writes, "You're a real live-wire, Love Mr Carroll." Y'know, it's all so phoney.
He wants to leave things on a good note.
Well, where Mr Carroll uses the word 'love', I look for a new word.

Lloyd, she's being difficult.
I'm going to take out Diane Court again.

That's unlikely.
The movies are a good second date, you know, as a date?
But you never had a first date.
Yes I did- I sat across from her in a mall. We ate together. We ate, that's eating, sharing an important physical event.
That's not even a scam.
What's a scam?
Going out as friends.

Then what's love?
I'm gonna call her.
Diane Court doesn't go out with guys like you. She's a brain.

Trapped in the body of a gameshow hostess.
Diane Court does not realise how good-looking she is.

Sounds great to me, I'm going to call her, that's what's cool about her.
Brains stay with brains. The bomb could go off and their mutant genes would form the same cliques.

I wouldn't get my hopes up Lloyd.
I'm sorry. It's just you're a really nice guy, and we don't want to see you get hurt.

Well, it's almost over. We've gone to school together for three years... I might cut that part out.
Why? It's fine. It's nice.

Having taken a few courses at the university this year, I have glimpsed our future, and all I can say is... go back.
Ha! Go back! What a great line!
You like it?
Oh yeah!
I didn't think anyone would get it.
Oh no, no, it's... it's wonderful. It's... no, don't worry about it. You're very funny. Go back, that's great!
Alright, no more, I'm going to save it.
Okay.

Thank-you. The real world.
Look at those eyes.

Ha!
Well, it's almost over. We've gone to school together for three years, and we've been through a lot. But with that training out of High School gone, what's going to happen to us? We all know what the answers are. We want to be happy, go to college, own a car, maybe raise a family. But what if that doesn't happen? I have, I have to be honest though, I have all the hope and ambition in the world. But when I think about the future, the truth is, I am really...scared.

Look at those eyes.
Lloyd, give it up.
Do me a favor; take a picture of me with her.
Lloyd.
C'mon, just do it.
C'mon Lloyd.
Please?
That's just so embarrassing.
Please? COREY Alright. Alright, Okay, here.

Wait for me for when I get round to the front.
Okay, I got it.

Lloyd?
Hey, sis.
I'm sorry. Sam had to do a new crown, we had [?], and Jason had a sore throat. Your big graduation, and no one was there.

It's no problem. I called Mom and Dad in Germany; it's like they were there.
I hope you understand.
Hey, bad throat, huh J-man?

Yeah.
Yeah, you gotta go 'YEAH', strength. Poor little man.

Why do you eat that stuff? There's no food in your food. Not too loud, the red line's there for a reason.
How do you know how to draw the red line anyway?
Because it's loud enough so the neighbors don't complain, that's how come I know.
Good thing there's not a red line on you, J-man. YEAH!

YEAH!
He's back. Hey my brother, can I borrow a copy of your 'Hey Soul Classics'?
No my brother, you have to go buy your own.
Hook up the jab, hook up the jab.

Why can't you be his uncle and not his playmate?
Jesus Christ. I get in a good mood. How hard is it just to decide to be in a good mood, and then be in a good mood?
Gee, it's easy.
Look, I'm really sorry that Mom and Dad made you take me in. Really. If it's such a big deal, I'll go. But remember this, it used to be fun. It used to be warped, twisted and hilarious, and I mean that in the best possible way, I mean it as a compliment. I mean, I'm sorry T-I-M left you. But I am not T-I-M.
I was hilarious once, wasn't I?
Yeah.
I still am.

Dad, you have to teach me to suture this weekend.
Okay, I promise I will. Just come here a minute, I want to show you something.

What are you doing?
Well, since I'm not only your father, I'm also your friend; I had to get you two presents.

God, that's... this is ridiculous.
Now this is the only thing your mother ever gave me that I kept. Now it's yours. Go ahead, open it.
Oh god, I don't need all these presents. I don't know any kid who got a car, I mean...

They really applauded you today honey.
I was standing up there and looking at all the people, and I felt like they didn't know me. I mean, maybe I shouldn't have taken all those courses out of school, because everybody thinks I... forget it.
No, wait a minute. Everybody thinks you're what?
Everybody thinks I'm a priss.
Diane, in a million years, you could never be a... priss. It's all working out for you honey, don't you see? It's all working out, just like we planned. All the years of summer school, all the vacations you gave up, it's all working out just the way we planned...
Stop it, stop it, stop it.
I'm sorry.
I love you dad.
I love you too honey.

You're tough, J-man.
He's a mess!

I'll be in my office.
I just washed this shirt, didn't I?

Jim Court?
Hello. May I please speak with Diane please?
Sorry, Diane isn't here at the moment.
Uh... okay... um...
Is this the guy with the Mustang?
No.
The guy with the Datsun?
No.
The truck?
Uh, no, not really, no actually, basically, you don't know me. I'm a friend of your daughters; well I sat with her yesterday at the mall.

Why don't I just get your phone number, that's usually how it works.
Oh. Okay then... Lloyd Dobler, 555-1342.

Okay, I'll give here the message.
Okay. She's really pretty great, isn't she?
What?
She's really pretty great, isn't she?
Yeah, she is. Good luck.
Okay. Good afternoon. Goodbye.
Jim Court... no, this is her father. I'll take...

What?
I just had a phone call.
Tell me, is it bad news?
No, no, just listen. You won the Wreath fellowship.
Are you kidding? You're not kidding? You're not kidding!
You won it. You're going to study at the finest institute at England, the toughest fellowship in the country, and you won.
I won?
You're going to take a big step, a big leap, and before you do, I just want one thing from you, miss. You stand up straight and admit you're special.

God, I'll have to go on a plane.
We'll worry about that later. Now come on, tell me that you're special.

Don't do this to me. You're too good at making me nervous.
No, listen to me. You're the best in the country, don't you understand? It's like a pyramid. It starts out with everybody, and it narrows through your life and through everything, and all the hoopla and the competition narrows it down to one brilliant person who is so special that they celebrate you on two continents. And it's you. So tell me something, where's the flaw in that? There is no flaw.

No, no, don't go in there.
Forget it, forget it, it's mine, it's mine!

No noise, no sound, no movement, nothing! Hello, Diane?
Hi. You called me?
Yeah. I read about your fellowship in the paper, and I'm very glad you called me back.
Yeah?
Yeah. I just wanted to congratulate you on your scholarship to England, and I wanted to tell you that I thought your speech was really incredible.
Thank you very much.
Whoah, what a day, huh?
Yeah. What a day.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Quick question - do you know who I am?
Yes, we sat together at Bell's Square.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. You remember?
No, I read it on the message.
Okay, um, so it's Lloyd and... uh... uh... let's go out. Do you wanna go out?
Oh, thanks, but I'm busy.
Busy?
Yes. Things are pretty hectic right now, but thanks.
Are you busy on Friday?
Yeah, I have to help my father.
Are you busy on Saturday?
Saturday, I have some things to do around the house.
So you're monumentally busy?
Well, not monumentally.
What about tonight then, are you going to that party at Valhere's?
Hmmm....
Look Diane, I'm sorry, but I can't allow you to leave the country without going to Valhere's graduation party. This gentleman, he's twenty-two, and he comes out of hiding once a year for this occasion, and he dresses up as the Lakeside rooster, and he,

Actually, I think that I...
Y'know, you're not in England yet, you know that of course, and by the way, I want to just tell you that I lived in England for a few months,

Well...
No tips. I won't give you any tips of any kind.
I'll go.
Pardon me?
I'll go.
You will? Excellent, alright, this is great. You will, really?

Alright. This is really great. Alright, we're going out. It's a date. It's a scam. Whatever, whatever, alright, I'll pick you up at what, eight O' clock?
Eight.
Eight. Eight O' clock.
Goodbye.
Goodbye.

PAIN!
Work that jab, work that hook, work that jab, okay, take a break, take a break.

Hi. Lloyd Dobler, sir. Pleasure to meet you.
Hello Lloyd.
Hello. Heard about that graduation present. Really quite a car. Look, I know you're busy, you don't' have to retain me, but you can trust me. I'll tell you a couple of things about myself, I'm nineteen, been overseas for a couple of semesters, but now I'm back. I'm an athlete, so I rarely drink. Kickboxing. You heard of kickboxing, sport of the future? Don 'The Dragon' Wilson, Lenny [?] merciless, one of the champions of the sport? I can see by your face, no. My point is, you can relax because your daughter will be safe with me for the next seven to eight hours.
Fine Lloyd.
How ya doing? Is she around?
Yeah. Honey?

Whoa.
Would you hold this for me?
Yeah

What are these?
They're Bavarian Death style pretzels.
Oh. Um, would it be terrible if I wanted to go home early?
No.

It's gotta stay purple. All night. Hey Lloyd, how ya doin'?
You know Diane Court?
Wow, man. Well. Listen man, I need you to be the keymaster.

Oh, I was just going to...
A very responsible young man you're out with tonight.
I was gonna...
Thanks a lot Lloyd.
I was just going to kind of move around.

Keymaster?
Yeah, I have to judge who can drive home and who can't. I have to keep their keys.
So it's an honor?
No.

We finally graduated, big dude guy!
Alright!

I love you man
I love you too.

Oh boy.
Hey.
Mike Cameron, how you doing?
What?
Mike Cameron. This is one fresh jam, huh?
Yeah.
Yeah, hey, oh god. Listen, I wanted to... I don't know you very well, you know, but I wanted to ask you, how did you get Diane Court to go out with you?
I called her up.
Yeah, but how come it worked? I mean like, what are you?
I'm Lloyd Dobler.
This is great, this gives me hope. Thanks.
Alright. Key?

I wrote sixty-three songs this year. They're all about Joe, and I'm going to play every single one of them tonight.
I just saw Joe. He's here.
Well, you don't have to be so dramatic about it.

Lloyd. Lloyd Dobler, I've got you.
How ya doin' Miss Evans?
You missed every one of your career counselling sessions. Call me obsessive, compulsive, but let's do this right now.
No way.
Lloyd.
What?

Don't make this like a counsel, Lloyd. I got statistics I can show you, I got graphs I can show you. That's all the stuff I can show you, it all says the same thing. You have to decide on a career.
My dad's a lieutenant colonel in the army, he wants me to join, he wants to pull some strings. I mean, there's no possible way.
We'll just make an appointment for you at Seattle Junior College.

Lloyd, everybody in that party put something down on their record except you.
How many people really know what they want though? I mean, a lot of them think that they have to know, right? But inside, they don't really know, so, I don't know. But I know that I don't know.
Hang tough, Lloyd.

Joe. Joe. She's written sixty-five songs. They're all about you. They're all about pain.
So what's up?
Stop freaking with her head man. Just stop playing with her mind, you know? She's a human being. She's a person. She's very talented, you know.
Dude, why do you think I keep her tapes? They're going to be valuable some day.

So we can finally talk?
Yeah.

He does this every year?
It's the worst job since keymaster.

You know, every year I throw this party, every year nobody helps me clear up. Why am I yelling?
I don't know.
I don't know. Good on you man. Alright Lloyd.
Maybe we'll come by tomorrow, help you clear up or something.
Diane, everybody loves that you showed up.

Give me my firebird keys!
You must chill! You must chill! I have hidden your keys. CHILL!
I love you man.
Alright, I love you too. Go to sleep.
We're full on bonded.
Yeah, alright.

You are such a great person Lloyd. I'm a good person, but you are a great person.
Hang in there, man.
Yes.
See you tomorrow.
See you. Bye. Bye Diane.

Thank-you.
I hereby surrender my duties as keymaster, give me a beer.

Certainly.
I am happy to say that this bag is officially empty.

Ooop, excuse me.
How you doin', brother?
I don't really know where we are.

Have a good sleep.
Bye.

Alright, this is some of the things they wrote me; "Glad I finally met you", "You always seemed nice", "Wish I could have known you more"...
Mine say stuff like "Lloyd, see you around maybe"
Nobody knew me before tonight.
They knew of you. Now they know you.
Yeah, but I feel like I fit in for the first time, you know? Like I just held them far away from me, and they did the same to me.
That's cool then.
Yeah. I'm so glad we did this.

It's just you and your dad, right?
Yeah, but that's an old story, you don't want to hear it.
Sure I do.
Well, my parents split up when I was thirteen, and... god, I actually had to... I went into court and I had to choose between the two of them. So I chose my dad. It just felt safer that way, you know?
Watch out for that glass.

Thanks. But either way it still feels...
Twisted?
You know what?
What?
You're a great date. I've never really gone out with someone as basic as you.
Basic. Hmmm.
So what's your job this summer?
Job? Being a great date.
No, I'm serious.
So am I. I want to see you again. I want to see you as much as I can before you leave. I said it.
I only have something like sixteen weeks.
Sixteen weeks is a long time.
Then call me tomorrow.
Today is tomorrow.
Then call me later.

Morning honey.
Dad, I'm so glad I went. Goodnight.
Wait a minute. How was Lloyd?
Lloyd was such a gentleman. He was funny and nervous and strange, and I met people that I never would have met before, then I blew it. I called him basic. Can you believe I did that?
Well, I don't think he's really been embarrassed by it.

Goodnight.
Goodnight.

Lloyd is doomed.
Meaning?
Meaning that she made the second date a family audition, which is the kiss of death for Lloyd.

Why?
It's too much pressure, it's not his crowd.
What is wrong with this girl?

I told him to be himself.
He's got that nervous talking thing. I told him not to speak.

Hey, I know this is a strange thing to say, but maybe Diane Court really likes Lloyd.
If you were Diane Court, would you honestly fall for Lloyd?

Yeah.
Or, or I could always wear this one.

Boy, this is a mother dictionary.
Yeah, I've had it forever. I used to have this thing with marking the words that I looked up.

Nice one.
Yeah?
I think you should wear that.
You think so?
Mmmm.

She's not the world's greatest flyer, let me tell you. When she was eight years old, she...
Dad.
Now why can't I tell the story?

Well, let me start it. I'm flying down to Los Angeles on business, and I decide to take her on her first aeroplane.
I knew how planes flew, but I was still a little nervous.
Crash paranoia.

Oh.
I had a checklist in mind. I thought that if babies were on the plane, the plane couldn't crash. But all the babies were crying, and I thought they knew something I didn't.

So anyway, they closed the doors, and she starts to scream. I've never in my life heard anyone scream quite like that.
And then you got up and you told them to turn the plane around.
Which they did. Let me finish.
Okay, I give up.
So anyway, these two federal marshals meet the plane, and they take our address, and they ask us never to fly with 'Friendly Skies' again.

Oh yeah. There was, uh, somebody on the plane worked in a recording studio, and, uh, we got this telephone call, this guy is making a sound effects record, and he'd gotten our address and he wanted to know if he could come over and record her scream.
Which they did, and every once in a while on a commercial, you can hear me scream.

Thanks Lloyd.
How do you pay for one of those?
Well, we pay for the [?]. That guy didn't want to part with it, a little matter of nine thousand dollars.

Yeah Lloyd. What are your plans for the future?
Spend as much time as possible with Diane before she leaves.
Seriously, Lloyd.
I'm totally and completely serious.
No, really.
You mean like career? Uh, I don't know. I've, I've thought about this quite a bit sir, and I'd have to say considering what's waiting out there for me, I don't want to sell anything, buy anything or process anything as a career. I don't want to sell anything bought or processed, or buy anything sold or processed, or... process anything sold, bought or processed, or repair anything sold, bought or processed, you know, as a career I don't want to do that. So, uh, my father's in the army, he wants me to join, but I can't work for that corporation, so what I've been doing lately is kickboxing, which is really a, uh, new sport, but I think it's got a good future. As far as career longevity goes, I don't really know, because, you know, you can't really tell. Your training sticks as a fighter, you know, but it's no good, you know, you have to be great, but I can't really tell if I'm great until I've had a couple of pro fights. But I haven't been knocked out yet. I don't know, I can't figure it all out tonight sir, I'm going to hang with your daughter.

Jesus. What, I live in a palace, right? I have guests here.
Understanding the following rights...
Speak with my lawyer.
So you refuse to answer my questions?
Just come down to my place of business, for god's sake. I have people here.
Mr Court, be aware that we will be contacting a number of your business associates...
This evening is over.
And your former wife.

Mom, please?
Diane, I do have a history with this man, and it's not the greatest. I see you so seldom, I'd really rather know about you.
This is me telling you about me.
You know, I don't even know if you've got a young man in your life?
I just wonder what could be more important than what's going on with dad.
If we could just talk about boys everything would be so much easier. You know, your room is always ready for you, you can always come home if... alright, what do you want me to do?
If they ask you questions, and they probably will ask you questions, would you please say something nice about him mum? Help him?
Alright.
You will?
Okay. Oh, here's Ray. Just talk to him because when you don't, your mouth turns down.

After work?
I usually have a break after the dinner service, if you want to stop by.
Won't you see me later?
I know you think my job is strange. You don't like old people, do you?
Me? Sure I do.
Come on.
Well, except for one thing. I used to work at a smorgasbord, and, and the old people would flock there, and, and they loved to eat. And they just jammed their mouths, you know? The used to eat with their mouths open, and you know, it's just too much for me. You get to be thinking about how short life is, and how maybe, maybe has no meaning because you wake up and you're frying burgers

I think that's ageism, and that's, that's being prejudiced against people because they're old. Maybe their mouths don't work as well as yours.
Really? Um... I... well... you're really turning me around here,

Stop by later.
Okay, bye, I will.
Okay, bye.
I'll see you there. Bye.

You have to meet Bess.
Okay.
She's amazing. She's ninety-three, she's a writer, and I told her about you.
Wait, wait. You told her about me?

Yes.
What did you say?
Well... just meet her.

It's okay, everybody does that.
I just don't want it to get too heavy. I feel really overloaded. I have this theory of convergence, that good things always happen with bad things. But I know you have to deal with them at the same time, but I just, I mean I don't know why they have to happen at the same time, I mean, I don't know why, I just wish I could work out... Am I just babbling? Do you know what I mean?
No.
I just can't have any social life right now.
Don't worry about it. We're just having coffee. We'll be anti- social.
Be friends?
Yeah. With potential.
Friends with potential.

Yeah, just keep going first, keep going around. Get the feel of it, feel the clutch, when you put it in a little?
Yeah.
You know how it'll come out and feel... y'know... little more, little more... Yeah, yeah, that's right. Go round just at first, keep it in first, just feel it.
I'm doing alright.
Yeah. Now, when you feel like you're confident,...
Yeah?
If you'll just maybe ease it into second.
Right.

Okay, this is important...
Am I wrecking my car?
Yeah, a little bit. Listen, this is important. When you feel it start to give, put the clutch in.
Oh. I was putting the...

Little more gas. Ease it up. Hold on- minor setback. Now you feel confident, right?
Yeah.
Now, go into second. Little more gas... Yeah! You can get this whole problem. Now, maybe you downshift to first?
This is so noble.
Well no, it's not noble, but it's a good aid to your lesson.

Let's get outta here. You want to?
Yeah.

Are you comfortable?
Yes. Are you shaking?
No.
You're shaking.
I don't think so.
You're cold.
I don't think I am.
Then why are you shaking?
I don't know. I'm happy.
Here are some blankets. This is a good song, this is a really good song.

Morning.
Dad, I'm sorry.
You should be.
I was irresponsible, I should have called.
You bet you should have called. You still live at home. Don't make me call the police at three-thirty in the morning, don't make me call hospitals.
Dad, I'm so sorry. I know this is a bad time.
You've always called before, always. Now I'm not asking what you did, I just want to know that you're alright.
I'm fine.
Do you wanna make things easier on me? Now tell me where you were because this is, this is bullshit. You can say anything to me, I hope you still know that.
I know that.

Lloyd?
Dad, yes. And I'm scared to death of what you must think of me right now.
Sit down.

Did he ever get rough with you?
Dad, no. But I didn't want any problems, so I decided not to sleep with him.

Did you sleep with her?
I admit nothing.

Lloyd, it's us.
Look at his face, he did the deed.
You're an inspiration Lloyd; you should go on the seven hundred club or something.

Alright, alright, alright, calm down, alright, calm down. Nothing's different.
Lloyd, listen to me. EVERYTHING has changed. You've had sex. No matter what you might think, nothing will ever be the same between you two. You might be sixty. You might be walking down the street, and you'll talk to her about something, whatever. But what you'll really be thinking is 'We had sex'.
So, what's your point?
You've got to do something special. You've got to make a statement.

Wait a minute.
You've got to show her respect, you've got to show her that you're not like Joe...
Wait a minute.
And above all, just because this happened gives you no right whatsoever...
You know I just sit here listening, and you never let me talk.
What? I'm sorry, talk.
I've forgotten what I was going to say... okay, okay, I remember. Let him do what he wants.

Alright.
Lloyd, send her flowers, write her a letter. Something.
I already did.

What does it say?
Read it.

"Dear Diane, I'll always be there for you, all the love in my heart, Lloyd." I've never gotten a letter like this, have you?
I dream about it.

The, uh, Cynthia Branson estate was worth how much? Because her family...
What family? We never heard from them. I sold her house for them, made them money.
Hmmm. Your income, Mr Court, hasn't changed substantially in seventeen years.
That's right.
Why would you stay so long with an operation that is so clearly not a growth enterprise?
Taking care of people isn't a growth enterprise, Mr Sims. I hope you write that down in your report, I'd like your bosses to read it.

Dad, maybe I shouldn't go with all that's happening to you.
You're going.
But listen, if I had a friend in the same position, I would tell her to delay a year.
You're going.
It doesn't feel right to me. I, I don't even have the right luggage yet.
Bon voyage.
You're not listening to me.
Diane! Alright, let's stop this right now. Let's not put our energy into something ridiculous. This isn't even smart thinking.
Dad, why are you acting this way? Is this because of the other morning?

Do you love him?
I like him a lot.
Well listen to me. Now, I know you like him, I know he's nothing like those frat kids you can't stand, but honey, after the excitement wears off, then what, huh? What are you going to talk about? What do you have in common? You're going to be part of an international think-tank, and he's going to be kicking punching bags.

Unbelievable. This is a nightmare.
Diane, you owe it to yourself to get on that plane with no attachments, no strings, because after you get over there, things are going to change. People change.
Dad, you and I have talked about this. Lloyd and I have talked about this. Believe me, this is well-covered territory.
Diane, I'm not asking you to sever all relations with the boy. Give him a present, here, let him know you still care. Give him this pen.

Dad, in a million years, I would never give him a pen. What's wrong with having some fun? I like him.
'I like him'? Diane, I'm talking about being honest with people, being decent...
Dad, I love him.

Check your mail tomorrow. I sent you a letter, a letter.
Your letter came yesterday.
It did?
Uh-huh. It was wonderful.
Why didn't you tell me?
It was wonderful.
I've never sent a letter like that, you know? I mean, I felt like I wanted to tell you something, but I didn't put it in the letter, and I didn't say it, but I want to say it now, I'm not sure if I should say it, you know, 'cause people always say it and don't mean it, but I think that I mean it, so, um, I just wanted to tell you...
No, we don't have to say it.
How do you know what I'm going to say?
I don't know what you're going to say, but I think that...
I was just going to tell you that I love you. I said it.
I know. Lloyd, let's not start putting things on this level.
What? This is a good level, isn't it?
How can I look at you and say this?
Say what?

I think that we should spend some time apart.
What's wrong?
Well, I need to study, and...
You need to study?
Yeah.
Okay, how much time do you need? I mean, you know, I mean you'll be leaving in a little while, so that's answered some questions.
We'll see.
Okay. It's good knowing this.
Yeah, uh-huh.

Okay, what did we just decide?
We decided...
'Cause I'm worried, did you just break up with me?
No, no.
It sounded like you did.
No. We decided that we're friends. I mean, I know it's a terrible word...
Well, if we're friends, why can't we see each other?
I think that we should stop going out on dates.
I feel like a dick. You must think I'm a dick.
No, I don't, I don't.
Yeah you do.
Lloyd, we shared the most intimate thing two people can share.
You shared it with a dick.
No I didn't.
Is this because of your dad?
No.
Did you talk to Corey?
Why, did you tell Corey what happened?
She figured it out. I'm sorry if that upsets you.
No, that's fine. She'll tell everybody, but that's fine.
Did you tell anybody?
Just my dad.
You told your dad?
You have Corey and DC. I have my dad.
What, I'm sorry I said that. Forget I said it, it's what I thought I meant, but forget it.
Lloyd, I love you, okay?
What is that? What are you doing with your hands? Talk to me, you're talking like that girl Sheila.
Don't be mean, this is hard for me too.
Then don't do it.
Oh shit.

Hello Constance. It's me, Lloyd... nothing, I'm just driving around... she broke up with me... what do I do? Can't she come back? How can I get her back?... I can't think, talk to me... I fucked up... I feel like crying... she gave me a pen. I gave her my heart and she gave me a pen.
Lloyd, honey, just come home, okay?
I'll be home soon.

Man, all you gotta do is find a girl who looks just like her, nail her, and then dump her man, get her off your mind.
Your only mistake is that you didn't dump her first. Diane Court is a showpony. You need a stallion, my friend. Walk with us and you walk tall.

Later for you, Luke.
I got a question. If you guys know so much about women, how come you're here at like the Gas 'n' sip on a Saturday night completely alone, drinking beers, no women anywhere?

My car.
Your car?

It's your castle, man.
Man, you never had a chance with a girl like that.
Hey man, I was in love once. I got hurt really bad. I never wanna go through that again.
Man, you're bringing me down!

You're freaking out here man.
You've gotta get her out of your head, man.

Diane Court.
Dude, I can't do it!

That was a mistake. The rain on my car is a baptism. The new me. Iceman, power Lloyd. My assault on the world begins now. Believe in myself, answer to no one... You probably got it all figured out, Corey. If you start out depressed, everything's kind of a pleasant surprise.
Look, why don't you just call Diane again?

I draw the line at seven un-returned phone calls.
Lloyd, you have to understand her family is being ripped apart. Like you and she were ripped apart. Like Joe and I were ripped apart.

Visit her at the home.
I'm not going back there. I don't even know who you're talking about.
Lloyd, why do you have to be like this?
'Cause I'm a guy, I have pride.

No, you're not a guy.
I am.
The world is full of guys. Be a man. Don't be a guy.
If she wants me, she can come to me.

Hi, Lloyd. This is my eighth and final call...
Go ahead, pick it up if you want.
I just wanted to say that I've thought about everything, and I've decided something. I'm going to give you another chance. Maybe no one's listening, or maybe your father's listening. Mr Court, if you're listening to this, hello, how are you?

If I pick it up, we'll only get back together.
Well then don't pick it up. You know what's best.

Hi.
Is it a gift for your wife? Are you getting a set together?
No, I'm not married. It's for my daughter.
For going to school?
Yeah, she won a fellowship.
Good for her.
I'll take the whole set.
Excellent.

Thanks, I like yours too.
Listen, I don't know your name, but what are you doing for lunch?

I'm sorry, but they turned down your card.
Oh yeah, let me give you another card.
Okay, thanks.

Keep it.
You're sure?
Yeah, I don't want it. Um, thank you very much. You're very kind.

Dad, are you okay in there?
Just finishing up in here.

I'm supposed to be leaving on a fellowship that I worked for my entire life. I don't even care. I met this boy over the summer, and I, I can't see him because of this, I can't talk to him, I can't talk to my father about... I wore these clothes, I thought, I thought that if I looked right and if I acted right then someone would talk to me. But I look awful and I feel awful, could you, could you please talk to me? Be a little decent.
We believe that your father operates in a large pool of cash that comes from phoney billings, phoney patients. We've been investigating him for five years. We believe that when they die, he takes their money.
Pardon me?
Look, why don't you check it out for yourself? See if your father fits the profile.
What's the profile?
Well, take a look around the house. Is everything nice, but not too nice? Are there lots of, uh, rugs, pieces of art, stereo equipment, uh, furniture, a lot of things bought with cash? Does he give a lot of gifts? Do the major items in your house cover around the nine thousand-dollar range?
You're trying to get me to say something, that's why you're telling me all of this.
Don't let your father's business infect your life.
How can you, how can you say that?
Because he's guilty.
No, no he's not.
We have records. We have proof. I'm sorry to be the one to have to tell you this, but it's going to get worse. Now, if I were you, I would take that fellowship.

What happened to you?
Dad, did you do it? Did you take that money?
Sweetheart, no. Don't be ridiculous.
Swear to god, I need to know the truth.
Honey!
Swear to god.
I swear to god.
But I found the money.
Honey, it's not what you think.
What am I supposed to think?
Honey, about what?
You stole from them, you lied to me. How do you think that's supposed to make me feel?
You think you know what this money is?
Yes, I...
No, you don't know what it is. It's not for me. This money's for you, for when you come back from England with honors to set you up, so you don't have to depend on anybody again. Diane, I take better care of these people than their families do. I care for them, I give them flowers, I feed them, I wipe their mouths...
No, but you stole from them.
I made their lives better.
You let me believe you. You knew you were guilty, and you let me become a part of it. God, how... how could you...
Alright, alright. Go ahead. When I'm old, give me someone like me, but go ahead.
I trusted you. I stood up in court five years ago and I picked you.
Why are you being so hateful to me? Is this because of Lloyd?
No. I told you everything, you lied to me. I would have done anything for you.
That's right, work it out.
No, I will. I don't want to leave something out because I know I can say anything to you. You're a liar, and a thief.
Take it easy how mad you make me, I'm the only dad you've got.
I'm so ashamed dad.
Don't say that, it's not good for you. You're...
You're right.

What do you want?
I'm sorry.
What do you want?
My father's guilty. He lied to me, he lied to everybody. I just left home... I need you.
You do?
Everything else means nothing to me. If I hurt you again, I'll die.
Hurt me again? Not a chance, don't worry about it.
I love you.
What?
I love you. How many more times do I have to say it?
One more time would be nice.
I love you. Please, I love you.

I can't give you that. This guy's been ripping off grandma and grandpa for seventeen years. He's been getting it from every end. I'd love to hear his story.
One hundred thousand dollar fine and three months?
One hundred and twenty-five thousand and nine months.
I can accept that.
And I want to turn the home over to the state.
He'd like to start serving immediately.
I can put that together.
Confirm this with my office and my client.
I'll put this past my boss
Alright.

She wouldn't get out of the car. I brought her all the way here, she said she was going to come here, and she wouldn't get out of the car. But I thought that is was important, that she come to see you, because I know that if you go somewhere and you don't deal with your family stuff, then you're just gonna, she's gonna, um...
Are you going to England with her Lloyd?
That's one of the things I wanted to talk to you about sir.
Are you?
Am I going? Am I going to England? I've thought about this quite a bit, and I've realised what I probably should do is just carve out a goal for my future and find out what I wanna do with my life, do all the stuff that I've been avoiding in a big way. I mean, Diane and I can wait for each other, right? What's she gonna... she's gonna run off with some English guy? There's no way.
Well Lloyd, I admire you for not hitching a ride. You know, my daughter's a lot different to you.
I know.
She's very successful.
I know
Very talented.
I know. But then I reconsidered. 'Cause I figured out what I really wanna do with my life, what I want to do for a living is I wanna be with your daughter. I'm good at it.
You're not a permanent part of her life. You're a distraction.
I'm the distraction that's going to England with her sir. Are you alright sir? Are you okay?
I'm incarcerated, Lloyd! I don't deserve to lose my daughter over this. I don't deserve to have you as my go-between. And I can't for the life of me figure out how she could choose to champion in mediocrity the way she flirts around you.

"You can't know the horrible disappointment I feel..."
I know this part, keep reading.
She can't still be angry at this, it's gotta get better.
It does, it does if it's the version signed 'I still can't help loving you'. Read that.
Just her name.
Just knowing a person like that exists, knowing that for a minute that she felt that and wrote 'I still can't help loving you'. That's gotta be a good thing, right? That's gotta be a good thing.

Hello.
Hi.
I don't know what to say to you, except goodbye.

I'm fine.
Okay, good, this is all very noble.

Okay.
Alright, high level air safety tips. If anything happens, it'll usually be in the first five minutes of the flight, right?
Okay.
So when you hear the smoking sign go 'ding', you know everything's going to be okay.
Good to know.
Right, I'm just going to keep talking until that ding happens, which is going to be soon.
Okay.
Alright, personalised flight care from Corey. Books, cassettes, magazines, anything?
Not right now, thanks.

How's it going?
Nobody thought we'd do this. Nobody really thinks it's going to work, do they?
No. You just described every great success story. Alright, it's alright.
I know.
<|endoftext|>
