When?
Two weeks, three at the most, Aaaagh! For pity's sake.
Take his feet out. Where will you get

I have a wonderful new play!
Put his feet in.
It's a comedy.
Cut his nose off.
A new comedy. By Will Shakespeare!
And his ears.
And a share. We will be partners, Mr. Fennyman!
Partners!
It's a crowd-tickler--mistaken identities, a shipwreck, a pirate king, a bit with a dog, and love triumphant.

What's the title?
Romeo and Ethel the Pirate's Daughter.
Good title.

But I have to pay the actors and the authors.
A share of the profits.
There's never any
Of course not!
Mr. Fennyman, I think you may have hit on something.

Romeo and Ethel The Pirate's DaughterAlmost finished?
Without doubt he is completing it at this very moment.

Will! Where is my play? Tell me you have it nearly done! Tell me you have it started. You have begun?
Doubt that the stars are fire, doubt that the sun doth move
No, no, we haven't the time. Talk prose. Where is my play?
It is all locked safe in here
God be praised! Locked?
As soon as I have found my muse

Who is she this time?!
She is always Aphrodite.
Aphrodite Baggot who does it behind the Dog and Trumpet?
Henslowe, you have no soul so how can you understand the emptiness that seeks a soulmate?
Well, I am a dead man and buggered to boot. My theatre is close by the plague these twelve weeks, my company is playing the inn-yards of England, while Burbage and the Chamberlain's Men are invited to court and receive ten pounds to play your piece, written for my theatre, by my writer, at my risk when you were green and grateful -
What piece? Richard Crookback?
No--it's comedy they want, Will! Comedy! Like Romeo and Ethel?
Who wrote that?
Nobody! You are writing it for me! I gave you three pounds a month since.
Half what you owed me. I am still due for One Gentleman of Verona.

Mr. Henslowe, will you lend me fifty pounds?
Fifty pounds? What for?
Burbage offers me a partnership in the Chamberlain's Men. For fifty pounds my hired player days are over.
Cut out my heart! Throw my liver to the dogs!
No, then.

Where are you going?
To my weekly confession.

Words, words, wordsonce, I had the giftI could make love out of words as a potter makes cups out of clay love that overthrows empires, love that binds two hearts together come hellfire and brimstonesfor sixpence a line, I could cause a riot in a nunnerybut now
And yet you tell me you lie with women?

Black Sue, Fat Phoebe, Rosaline, Burbage's seamstress; Aphrodite, who does it behind the Dog and
Aye, now and again, but what of it? I have lost my gift.
I am here to help you. Tell me in your own words.
I have lost my gift. It's as if my quill is broken. As if the organ of the imagination has dried up. As if the proud tower of my genius has collapsed.
Interesting.
Nothing comes.
Most interesting.
It is like trying to a pick a lock with a wet herring.
Tell me, are you lately humbled in the act of love?

How long has it been?
A goodly length in times past, but lately
No, no. You have a wife, children

A woman of property?
She had a cottage. One day, she was three months gone with child, so
And your relations?
On my mother's side the Ardens
No, your marriage bed.
Four years and a hundred miles away in Stratford. A cold bed too, since the twins were born. Banishment was a blessing.
So now you are free to love
yet cannot love nor write it.

Will it restore my gift?
The woman who wears the snake will dream of you, and your gift will return. Words will flow like a river. I will see you in a week.

Now where? Will?
To the Palace at Whitehall.

There is no dog in the first scene, Will Kempe, thank you. How goes it Will?
I am still owed money for this play, Burbage.
Not from me. I only stole it. When are you coming over to the Chamberlain's Men?
When I have fifty pounds.

Are you writing?
A comedy. All but done, a pirate comedy, wonderful.
What is the chief part?
Romeo. Wit, swordsman, lover.
The title?
Romeo
I will play him. Bring it tomorrow.
It's for Henslowe. He paid me.
How much?
Ten pounds.
You're a liar.

I swear it. He wants Romeo for Ned and the Admiral's Men.
Ned is wrong for it.

Here is two sovereigns--I'll give you two more when you show me the pages.
Done.

Burbage, I will see you hanged for a pickpocket.
The Queen has commanded, she loves a comedy and the Master of the Revels favours us.
And what favour does Mr. Tilney receive from you?
Ask him.

When will you write me a sonnet, Will?
I have lost my gift.
You left it in my bed. Come to look for it again.
Are you to be my muse, ROSALINE?
Burbage has my keeping but you have my heart.

I feel a scene coming on.
Is it about a pirate's daughter?

Did you like Proteus or Valentine best? Proteus for speaking, Valentine for looks.
I liked the dog, for laughs.
But Silvia I did not care for much. His fingers were red from fighting and he spoke like a schoolboy at lessons. Stage love will never be true love while the law of the land has our heroines played by pipsqueak boys in petticoats! Oh, when can we see another?
When the Queen commands it.
But at the playhouse. Nurse?
Be still.

Playhouses are not for well-born ladies.
I am not so well-born.
Well-monied is the same as well-born and well-married is more so. Lord Wessex was looking at you tonight.
All the men at court are without poetry. If they look at me they see my father's fortune. I will have poetry in my life. And adventure. And love. Love above all.
Like Valentine and Silvia?
No . . . not the artful postures of love, but love that over- throws life. Unbiddable, ungovernable, like a riot in the heart, and nothing to be done, come ruin or rapture. Love like there has never been in a play. I will have love or I will end my days as a . . .
As a nurse.
But I would be Valentine and Silvia too. Good Nurse, God save you and good night. I would stay asleep my whole life if I could dream myself into a company of players.

This time we take your boots off!
What have I done, Mr. Fennyman?
The theatres are all closed by the plague!
Oh, that.
by order of the Master of the Revels!
Mr. Fennyman, let me explain about the theatre business. The natural condition is one of insurmountable obstacles on the road to imminent disaster. Believe me, to be close by the plague is a bagatelle in the ups and downs of owning a theatre.
So what do we do?
Nothing. Strangely enough , it all turns out well.
How?
I don't know. It's a mystery.

Where is the play?
Oh, it's coming, it's coming.

Romeo and Rosaline. Scene One! God, I'm good!
Rosaline? You mean Ethel.

Like you, I found him not at home!
So this is the favour you find in the Chamberlain's Men.

Will!
I would have made you immortal. Tell Burbage he has lost a new play by Will Shakespeare.

What does Burbage care of that? He is readying the Curtain for Kit Marlowe.
You have opened the playhouses?
I have, Master Shakespeare.
But the plague
Yes, I know. But he was always hanging around the house.

Will! Have you finished?
Yes. Nearly. It's all locked safe in here. We need Ralph for the Pirate King. Good morning, Master Nol. You will have a nice little part.

Kit
How goes it, Will?
Wonderful, wonderful.
Burbage says you have a play.
I have. And chinks to show for it.

I insist--and a beaker for Mr. Marlowe. The BARMAN does the business.
I hear you have a new play for the Curtain.
Not new--my Doctor Faustus.
I love your early work. "Was this the face that launched a thousand ships and burnt the topless towers of Ilium?"
I have a new one nearly done, and better. The Massacre at Paris.
Good title.
And yours?
Romeo and Ethel the Pirate's Daughter. Yes, I know.
What is the story?
Well, there's a pirate In truth, I have not written a word.
Romeo isItalian. Always in and out of love.
Yes, that's good. Until he meets
Ethel.
Do you think?
The daughter of his enemy.
The daughter of his enemy.
His best friend is killed in a duel by Ethel's brother or something. His name is Mercutio.
Mercutiogood name.

Good luck with yours, Kit.
I thought your play was for Burbage.
This is a different one.
A different one you haven't written?

My tailor. Wants to be an actor. I have a few debts here and there. Well, that seems to be everybody. Did you see a Romeo?
I did not.
Well, I to my work, you to yours. When can I see pages?
Tomorrow

Your name?
Thomas Kent. I would like to do a speech by a writer who commands the heart of every player.

Take off your hat.
My hat?
Where did you learn how to do that?
I . . .
Wait there.
Are you Mr. Shakespeare?
Let me see you. Take off your hat.

Follow that boat!
Right you are, governor!

I know your face. Are you an actor?
Yes.
Yes, I've seen you in something. That one about a king.
Really?
I had the Christopher Marlowe in my boat once.

Do you know that house?
Sir Robert De Lesseps.

He sees himself in me! Romeo Montague, a young man of Verona.
Verona again.
A comedy of quarreling families reconciled in the discovery of Romeo to be the very same Capulet cousin stolen from the cradle and fostered to manhood by his Montague mother that was robbed of her own child by the Pirate King!

Your mother, and your father
From tomorrow, away in the country for three weeks! Is Master Shakespeare not handsome?
He looks well enough for a mountebank.
Oh, Nurse! He would give Thomas Kent the life of Viola De Lesseps's dreaming.
My lady, this play will end badly. I will tell.
You will not tell. As you love me and as I love you, you will bind my breast and buy me a boy's wig!

She is a beauty, my lord, as would take a king to church for a dowry of a nutmeg.
My plantations in Virginia are not mortgaged for a nutmeg. I have an ancient name that will bring you preferment when your grandson is a Wessex. Is she fertile?
She will breed. If she do not, send her back.
Is she obedient?
As any mule in Christendom. But if you are the man to rider her, their are rubies in the saddlebag.
I like her.

My lady Viola.
My lord.
I have spoken with your father.
So my lord? I speak with him every day.

"Poet?"
I was a poet till now, but I have seen beauty that puts my poems at one with the talking ravens at the Tower.

How do I offend, my lord?
By coveting my property. I cannot shed blood in her house but I will cut your throat anon. You have a name?
Christopher Marlowe at your service.

My lady!
Who is there?
Will Shakespeare!

Anon, good nurse. Anon. Master Shakespeare?!
The same, alas.
Oh but why "alas?"
A lowly player.
Alas indeed, for I thought you the highest poet of my esteem and a writer of plays that capture my heart.
Oh--I am him too!

Oh my lady, my love!
If they find you here they will kill you.
You can bring them with a word.
Oh, not for the world!

We are at least six men short, and those we have will be overparted, ranters and stutterers who should be sent back to the stews. My Romeo has let me down. I see disaster.
We are at least four acts short, Will, if you are looking for disaster.

Who are you, master?
I am Ethel, sir, the Pirate's daughter.
I'll be damned if you are!

Is it going well?
Very well.
But nothing is happening.
Yes, but very well.

Gentlemen! Thank you! You are welcome.
Who is that?

Nobody. The author.
We are about to embark on a great voyage.
It is customary to make a little speech on the first day. It does no harm and authors like it.
You want to know what parts you are to receive. All will be settled as we go

We are in desperate want of a Mercutio, Ned, a young nobleman of Verona
And the title of this piece?
Mercutio

Mr. Pope! Mr. Phillips! Welcome, George Bryan! James Armitage! Sam! My pretty one! Are you ready to fall in love again?
I am, Master Shakespeare.
But your voice Have they dropped?
No, no, a touch of cold only. We suspect he is lying but WILL has turned away.
Master Henslowe, you have your actors.

I saw his Tamburlaine, you know. Wonderful.
Yes, I saw it.
Of course, it was mighty writing. There is no one like Marlowe

Better fortune, boy.
I was in a play. They cut my head off in Titus Andronicus. When I write plays, they will be like Titus.
You admire it?

I like it when they cut heads off. And the daughter mutilated with knives.
Oh. What is your name?

Wait, you'll see the cat bites his head off.
I have to get back.

Cut round him for now.
What? Who?
Romeo.
The one who came with your letter?
What?

"Good morrow, cousin."
"Is the day so young?"

"But new struck nine."
"Ay me, sad hours seem long. Was that my father that went hence so fast?"
It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?"
"Not having that which, having, makes them short."

"Out."
"Of love?"
"Out of her favour where I am in love."

Yes, sir.
Do you understand me?
No, sir.
He is speaking about a baggage we never even meet! What will be left in your purse when he meets his Juliet?

Juliet? You mean Ethel.
God's teeth, am I to suffer this constant stream of interruption?! What will you do in Act Two when he meets the love of his life?

I am very sorry, sir, I have not seen Act Two.
Of course you have not! I have not written it!

WillWhere is Mercutio?
Locked safe in here. I leave the scene in your safe keeping, Ned, I have a sonnet to write.

Two hours at prayer!
Lady Viola is pious, my lord.
Piety is for Sunday! And two hours at prayer is not piety, it is self- importance!
It would be better that you return tomorrow, my lord.
It would be better that you tell her to get off her knees and show some civility to her six-day lord and master.

My lady VIOLA.
Lord Wessex. You have been waiting.
I am aware of it, but it is beauty's privilege.
You flatter, my lord.
No. I have spoken to the Queen. Her majesty's consent is requisite when a Wessex takes a wife, and once gained, her consent is her command.
Do you intend to marry, my lord?
Your father should keep you better informed. He has bought me for you. He returns from his estates to see us married two weeks from Saturday. You are allowed to show your pleasure.
I do not love you, my lord.
How your mind hops about! Your father was a shopkeeper, your children will bear arms, and I will recover my fortune. That is the only matter under discussion today. You will like Virginia.
Virginia?!
Why, yes! My fortune lies in my plantations. The tobacco weed. I need four thousand pounds to fit out a ship and put my investments to work--I fancy tobacco has a future. We will not stay there long, three or four years . . .
But why me?
It was your eyes. No, your lips.

Will you defy your father and your Queen?
The Queen has consented?
She wants to inspect you. At Greenwich, come Sunday. Be submissive, modest, grateful and brief.
I will do my duty, my lord.

You did not like the speech?
The speech is excellent. "Oh, then I see Queen Mab hath been with you!" Excellent and a good length. But then he disappears for the length of a bible.

Oh, Thomas! She has cut my strings! I am unmanned, unmended, and unmade, like a puppet in a box.
Writer, is he?

She tells me to keep away. She is to marry Lord Wessex. What should I do?
If you love her, you must do what she asks.
And break her heart and mine?
It is only ours you can know.
She loves me, Thomas!
Does she say so?
No. And yet she does where the ink has run with tears. Was she weeping when she gave you this?
I Her letter came to me by the nurse.
Your aunt?
Yes, my aunt. But perhaps she wept a little. Tell me how you love her, Will.
Like a sickness and its cure together.
Yes, like rain and sun, like cold and heat. Is your lady beautiful? Since I came to visit from the country, I have not seen her close. Tell me, is she beautiful?
Oh, if I could write the beauty of her eyes! I was born to look in them and know myself.

And her lips?
Oh, Thomas, her lips! The early morning rose would wither on the branch, if it could feel envy!
And her voice? Like lark song?
Deeper. Softer. None of your twittering larks! I would banish nightingales from her garden before they interrupt her song.
She sings too?
Constantly. Without doubt. And plays the lute, she has a natural ear. And her bosom--did I mention her bosom?
What of her bosom?
Oh Thomas, a pair of pippins! As round and rare as golden apples!
I think the lady is wise to keep your love at a distance. For what lady could live up to it close to, when her eyes and lips and voice may be no more beautiful than mine? Besides, can a lady born to wealth and noble marriage love happily with a Bankside poet and player?
Yes, by God! Love knows nothing of rank or riverbank! It will spark between a queen and the poor vagabond who plays the king, and their love should be minded by each, for love denied blights the soul we owe to God! So tell my lady, William Shakespeare waits for her in the garden!
But what of Lord Wessex?
For one kiss, I would defy a thousand Wessexes!

Thank you, my lady!
Lady?
Viola De Lesseps. Known her since she was this high. Wouldn't deceive a child.

Can you love a fool?
Can you love a player?

Wait! You are still a maid and perhaps as mistook in me as I was mistook in Thomas Kent.
Answer me only this: are you the author of the plays of William Shakespeare?
I am.
Then kiss me again for I am not mistook.

I do not know how to undress a man.
It is strange to me, too.

I would not have thought it. There is something better than a play.
There is.
Even your play.
Oh
And that was only my first try.
Well perhaps better than my first.

You would not leave me?
I must. Look-- how pale the window.
Moonlight!
No, the morning rooster woke me.
It was the owl--come to bed

Oh, let Henslowe wait.
Mr. Henslowe?
Let him be damned for his pages!
Oh--no, no!
There is time. It is still dark.
It is broad day! The rooster tells us so!
It was the owl. Believe me, love, it was the owl.

"Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?"
"Ay pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer."
"Oh then, dear saint, let lips do what hands to: They pray: grant thou, lest faith turn to despair."

"Thus from my lips, by thine, my sin is purg'd."
"Then have my lips the sin that they have took."
"Sin from my lips? Oh trespass sweetly urg'd. Give me my sin again."

"I know not."
"Go ask his name--If he be married, My grave is like to be my wedding bed."

Oh, do not go
I must. I must

Oh, Will!
Yes, some of it is speakable.

"The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars As daylight doth a lamp. Her eyes in heaven Would through the airy region stream so bright That birds would sing and think it were not night. See how she leans her cheek upon her hand. O that I were a glove upon that hand, That I might touch that cheek.
"Ay me."
"She speaks.

I would not for the world!
I have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes; And but thou love me, let them find me here.

"Good night, good night. As sweet repose and rest Come to thy heart as that within my breast. O wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?"
That's my line!
Oh, but it is mine too!

"O wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?"
"What satisfaction can'st thou have tonight?"
"The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine."

"All my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay, And follow thee my lord throughout the world."
"Madam!"
"I come, anon--But if thou meanest not well, I do beseech thee--"
"Madam!"
By and by I come to cease thy strife and leave me to my grief. A thousand times good night!"

NedI knowI know
It's good.
Oh
The title won't do.
Ah
Romeo and Juliet--just a suggestion.
Thank you, Ned.

You are a gentleman.
And you are a Warwickshire shit-house.

I found something in my sleep. The Friar who married them will take up their destinies.
Oh, but it will end well for love?
In heaven, perhaps. It is not a comedy I am writing now. A broad river divides my lovers--family, duty, fate--as unchangeable as nature.
Yes, this is not life, Will. This is a stolen season.

Not ready? Where is she?
Be patient, my lord, she is dressing.
Will you ask Her Majesty to be patient?!

You cannot! Not for the Queen herself!
What will you have me do? Marry you instead?
To be the wife of a poor player?--can I wish that for Lady Viola, except in my dreams? And yet I would, if I were free to follow my desire in the harsh light of day.
You follow your desire freely enough in the night. So, if that is all, to Greenwich I go.
Then I will go with you.
You cannot, Wessex will kill you
I know how to fight!
Stage fighting! Oh, Will! As Thomas Kent my heart belongs to you but as Viola the river divides us, and I will marry Wessex a week from Saturday.

Good morning, my lord!
Ah! My lady! The tide waits for no man, but I swear it would wait for you!

Here we come at last, my lord!
Are you bringing your laundry woman?
Her chaperone. My lady's country cousin. My, but you be a handsome gallant, just as she said! You may call me Miss Wilhelmina!
On a more fortuitous occasion, perhaps
Oh, my lord, you will not shake me off, she never needed me more, I sear by your breeches!

Is there a man?
A man, my lord?
There was a man, poet--a theatre poet, I heard--does he come to the house?
A theatre poet?
An insolent penny-a-page rogue, Marlowe, he said, Christopher Marlowe--has he been to the house?
Marlowe? Oh yes, he is the one, lovely waistcoat, shame about the poetry.
That dog!

Your Majesty.
Stand up straight, girl.

I have seen you. You are the one who comes to all the plays--at Whitehall, at Richmond.
Your Majesty.
What do you love so much?
Your Majesty
Speak out! I know who I am. Do you love stories of kings and queens? Feats of arms? Or is it courtly love?
I love theatre. To have stories acted for me by a company of fellows is indeed
They are not acted for you, they are acted for me.

And--?
And I love poetry above all.
Above Lord Wessex?

But playwrights teach nothing about love, they make it pretty, they make it comical, or they make it lust. They cannot make it true.
Oh, but they can!

I meanYour Majesty, they do not, they have not, but I believe there is one who can
Lady Viola isyoung in the world. Your Majesty is wise in it. Nature and truth are the very enemies of playacting. I'll wager my fortune.

What do you want, Kit?
My Massacre at Paris is complete.
You have the last act?
You have the money?
Tomorrow.
Then tomorrow you will have the pages.
Wait! Will you desist!
Twenty pounds on delivery
What is money to me like us? Besides, if I need a play, I have another waiting, a comedy by Shakespeare.
Romeo?--he gave it to Henslowe.
Never!
Well, I am to Deptford now, I leave my respects, Miss Rosaline.
I gave Shakespeare two sovereigns for Romeo!
You did. But Ned Alleyn and the Admiral's Men have the playing of it as the Rose.
Treachery!

Will! What--?
A literary feud. Quite normal.

I want no more trouble, Mr. Fennyman. As I explained to you, the theatre business
Henslowe, you pound of tripe, in my business I would be out of business if I had your courage, so don't tell me about business

Oh!--it's--it's--oh, it's a house of ill- repute!
It is, Thomas, but of good reputation. Come, there is no harm in a drink.

Mr. Fennyman, because you love the theatre you must have a part in my play. I am writing an Apothecary, a small but vital role.
By heaven, I thank you! I will be your Apothecary!

Mr. Shakespeare has given me the part of the Apothecary!
The Apothecary? Will, what is the story? Where is the shipwreck? How does the comedy end?

By God, I wish I knew.
By God, Will, if you do not, who does? Let us have pirates, clowns, and a happy ending, or we will send you back to Stratford to your wife!

Ohwhat have I done?
He was the first man among us. A great light has gone out.

You look sad, my lady! Let me take you riding.
It is not my riding day, my lord.
Bless me, I thought it was a horse.
I am going to church.
I understand of course. It is to be expected.
It is to be expected on a Sunday.
And on a day of mourning. I never met the fellow but once at your house.
Mourning? Who is dead, my lord?
Oh!--dear God, I did not think it would be me to tell you. A great loss to playwriting, and to dancing.

He is dead?
Killed last night, in a tavern! Come, then, we'll say a prayer for his soul

Marlowe's touch was in my Titus Andronicus and my Henry VI was a house built on his foundations.
You never spoke so well of him.
He was not dead before. I would exchange all my plays to come for all of his that will never come.
You lie.

You lie in your meadow as you lied in my bed.
My love is no lie. I have a wife, yes, and I cannot marry the daughter of Sir Robert de Lesseps. It needed no wife come from Stratford to tell you that. And yet you let me come to your bed.
Calf love. I loved the writer, and gave up the prize for a sonnet.
I was the more deceived.

I love you, Will, beyond poetry.
Oh, my love You ran from me before.
You were not dead before. When I thought you dead, I did not care about all the plays that will never come, only that I would never see your face. I saw our end, and it will come.
You cannot marry Wessex!
If not Wessex the Queen will know the cause and there will be no more Will Shakespeare.

Nono.
But I will go to Wessex as a widow from these vows, as solemn as they are unsanctified.

I have not said all. By malign fate, the message goes astray which would tell Romeo of the Friar's plan. He hears only that Juliet is dead. And thus he goes to the Apothecary.
That's me.
And buys a deadly poison. He enters the tomb to say farewell to Juliet who lies there cold as death. He drinks the poison. He dies by her side. And then she wakes and sees him dead.

Well, that will have them rolling in the aisles.
Sad and wonderful! I have a blue velvet cap which will do well, I have seen apothecary with a cap just so.

Will you read it for me?
"Wilt thou be gone? It is not yet near day> It was the nightingale and not the lark That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear. Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate tree. Believe me, love, it was the nightingale."
"It was the lark, the herald of the morn, No nightingale. Look, love, what envious streaks Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east. Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops. I must be gone and live, or stay and die."

"thou need'st not to be gone."
"I have more care to stay than will to go. Come death, and welcome. Juliet wills it so. How is't my soul? Let's talk. It is not day."

You upstart inky pup! Now I will show you your place, which is in hell!
You are on my ground.
By God, I'll fight the lot of you

Ned, I swear I knew nothing of this!
Nobody knew!

It is over.
I am so sorry, Mr. Henslowe. I wanted to be an actor. I am sorry, Will.

Be good to her, my lord!
I will.

God bless you!
Thank you. Let go, there's a good nurse.

We are lost.
No, it will turn out well.
How will it?
I don't know, it's a mystery.

Master Shakespeare
Luck be with you, Sam. Sam?
It is not my fault, Master Shakespeare. I could do it yesterday.
Sam! Do me a speech, do me a line.
"Parting is such sweet sorrow"

Another little problem.
What do we do now?
The show must you know
Go on.
Juliet does not come on for twenty pages. It will be all right.
How will it?
I don't know. It's a mystery.

We have no Juliet!
No Juliet?!

No Juliet?!
it will be all right, madam.
What happened to Sam?
Who are you?
Thomas Kent!

Do you know it?
Every word.

We will all be put in the clink.
See you in jail.

Your Majesty
There was a wager, I rememberas to whether a play can show the very truth and nature of love. I think you lost it today. You are an eager boy. Did you like the play?

Your Majesty!
Why, Lord Wessex! Lost your wife so soon?
Indeed I am a bride short. How is this to end?

As stories must when love's denied--with tears and a journey. Those whom God has joined in marriage, not even I can put asunder.
Lord Wessex, as I foretold, has lost his wife in the play- house--go make your farewell and send her out. It's time to settle accounts. How much was the wager?
Fifty shillings. Pounds.
Give it to Master Kent. He will see it rightfully home. WESSEX gives his purse to VIOLA.

A hired player no longer. Fifty pounds, Will, for the poet of true love.
I am done with theatre. The playhouse is for dreamers. Look where the dream has brought us.
It was we ourselves did that. And for my life to come I would not have it otherwise.
I have hurt you and I am sorry for it.
If my hurt is to be that you will write no more, then I shall be the sorrier.

The Queen commands a comedy, Will for Twelfth Night.
A comedy! What will my hero be but the saddest wretch in the kingdom, sick with love?
An excellent beginning Let him bea duke. And your heroine?
Sold in marriage and half way to America.
At sea, then--a voyage to a new world?she lands upon a vast and empty shore. She is brought to the dukeOrsino.
Orsinogood name
But fearful of her virtue, she comes to him dressed as a boy
and thus unable to declare her love

But all ends well.
How does it?
I don't know. It's a mystery

You will never age for me, nor fade, nor die.
Nor you for me.
Good bye, my love, a thousand times good bye.
Write me well.
<|endoftext|>
