You've received your appointment as Enterprise Science Officer?
Based, I am told, on your recommendation, Admiral. Thank you.
Why aren't you on board?
Captain Decker requested I complete final Science briefing here before...
Here at Starfleet...? The Enterprise is in final preparation to leave dock...
Which will require twenty more hours at minimum, Admiral...
Twelve! I'm on my way to a meeting with Admiral Nogura which will not last more than three minutes. Report to me on the Enterprise in one hour.
To you, sir?
I intend to be there following that meeting. Report to me. One hour!

Admiral, I've been hoping to see you. Maybe you can get through to those thick heads in Starfleet that...
Why aren't the Enterprise transporters in operation, Mister Scott?
We're hoping it's only a temporary problem, Admiral...
See that it is. Take me over, please.

Admiral, the Enterprise has just finished eighteen months redesign- ing and refitting. She needs testing, a shakedown...
Mr. Scott, there's an alien object with unbelievable destructive power less than three days away from this planet...

The crew hasn't had near enough transition time with all the new equipment. And the engines, Admiral: they've yet to be even tested at warp power. Add to that, an untried Captain...
Two and a half years as Chief of Starfleet Operations may have made me a little stale, Mr. Scott -- but I wouldn't exactly consider myself 'untried.'

I appreciate the welcome; I wish the circumstances were less critical. Epsilon Nine is monitoring the intruder; keep a channel open to them. Where is Captain Decker?
He's in Engineering, sir... He doesn't know.

I'm taking over the Center seat. I'm sorry, Will.
You are what...?
I'm replacing you as Captain of the Enterprise.

You'll stay aboard as Executive Officer... a temporary grade reduction to Commander.
-- You, personally, are assuming command?
Yes.
May I ask Why?
My experience -- five years out there dealing with unknowns like this -- my familiarity with the Enterprise, this crew...
Admiral, this is an almost totally new enterprise. You don't know her a tenth as well as I do.

That's why you're staying aboard. I'm sorry, Will.
No, Admiral. I don't think you are; not one damned bit. I remember when you recommended me for this command. You told me how envious you were, and if only you could find a way to get a starship command again. Well, sir, it looks like you found a way.

We're losing the pattern...!
Starfleet, boost your matter gain; we need more signal!

We'll have to replace Commander Sonak. I'd still like a Vulcan there, if possible...
None available, Captain. There's no one in fact, who's fully rated on this design.
You are, Mister Decker. I'm afraid you'll have to double as Science Officer.

Transporters Room and Chief Engineer Scott report trans- porter system fully repaired and now functioning normally, sir.
Dock signals clear, Captain.

Lieutenant Ilia reporting for duty, sir.
Welcome aboard, Lieutenant.

Hello, Ilia.
Decker....!

'Commander' Decker?
Our Exec and Science Officer...

And in you, too, Lieutenant.
My oath of celibacy is on record Captain. May I assume my duties?

I now the Captain meant no person- al insult.
I would never take advantage of a sexually immature species. You can assure him that's true, can't you?

Dock control reports ready, sir.
Helm ready, sir.

Maneuvering thrusters, Mister Sulu.
Maneuvering thrusters, sir.
Hold station.
Thrusters at station-keeping, sir.

Departure angle on viewer.
Departure angle.

Programming ready?
Program set for standard Warp entry, Captain...

... but I still recommend further simulation study.
Mister Decker; every minute brings that object nearer Earth! Engineering! Stand by for Warp Drive.

Captain, we need further Warp simulation on the flow sensors...
Engineer, we need Warp speed now!

Ahead Warp One, Mr Sulu.
Accelerating to Warp One, sir.

Negative helm control, Captain! Going reverse on impulse power...!
Subspace frequencies are jammed by Wormhole effect!

Negative control from inertial lag will continue 22 point five seconds before forward velocity slows to sub-light speed.
Unidentified small object has been pulled into the wormhole with us, Captain! Directly ahead...!

Navigational deflectors inoperative...! Directional control also inoperative, Captain...!
Wormhole distortion has over- loaded main power systems...!

Time to impact...?
Twelve seconds...!
Mr. Chekov, stand by on the phasers...!

Warp Drive as soon as possible, Mr. Scott.
Captain, it was our anti-matter imbalance that created the wormhole in the first place. It will happen again if we don't correct it.
That object out there is less than two days from Earth, Mister Scott. We've got to intercept while it still is out there!
Aye, we understand that sir! We're doing our best.

Explanation, Mr. Decker: Why was my phaser order countermanded?
Sir, the Enterprise redesign increases phaser power by channeling it through the main engines. When they went into anti-matter imbalance, the phasers were automatically cut off.

Then you acted properly, of course.
Thank you, sir. I'm sorry I embar- rassed you.
You saved the ship.
I'm aware of that, sir.
Stop competing with me, Decker!
Permission to speak freely, sir?
Granted.
Sir, you haven't logged a single star hour in two and a half years. That, plus your unfamiliarity with the ship's design -- in my opinion, sir, seriously jeopardizes our mission.

I trust you will... nursemaid me through these difficulties, Mister?
Yes, sir, I'll do that.

Was he difficult?
No more than I expected Not as difficult as this. I'm sorry...
That you left? or that you didn't say 'goodbye'?
If I'd seen you again, would you have been able to say it?
No.

It is a courier, Captain. Grade One priority. Non-belligerency confirmed.
Very well, Mr. Chekov, see to it. Viewer off.

If our Executive Officer has no objections...?
Of course not. I'm aware of Mister Spock's qualifications.
Mister Chekov, log Mister Spock's Starfleet commission reactivated; list him as Science Officer; both effective immediately.

Reporting as ordered, Captain.
Sit down, please.

Sir, I would appreciate Dr. McCoy absenting himself from this interview.
I want him here. Sit down!

You've reported that you felt strong thought emotions. A group of minds from a space vessel? Could you make out any plan, anything to do with Earth?
Negative, Captain. I could sense only what seemed an almost omniscient pattern of perfect logic. I can explain nothing more; I understand nothing more.

Also -- there was nothing in your report about why you're here.
That inquiry invades my personal life, Captain.

I still contain fragments of my human half.
And whatever you sensed out here....
... is my only hope of accomplishing what the Masters could not.

Let it drop, Bones. You are my Science Officer -- I'll expect an immediate report on anything further you learn or sense from here on.
I have accepted service here as a Starfleet officer... sir.
I know this has been painful, Spock. For me too. Thank you.

Do not return scan, Mr. Spock! It may be misinterpreted as hostility!
Intruder scans emanate from the exact cloud center. Energy of a type entirely un- known to me.

Recommend defensive posture, Captain: Screens and shields.
No... ... that could also be misinter- preted as hostile, Mr. Decker. Cloud composition, Mr. Spock?

Captain, we've seen what their weapons can do. Shouldn't we take every possible precaution -- ?
Mr Decker....

Captain, I suspect there's an object at the heart of that cloud.
Mr. Decker, I will not provoke an attack, If that order isn't clear to you...

Five minutes to Cloud boundary!
I stand corrected Mr. Decker. Navigator, lay in a conic section flight path into the cloud center; bring us parallel to whatever we find in there...

They have... they have been communicating with us. I sense ... puzzlement. Why have we not replied?
Communicated with us how?

Mr. Spock?
Impact in fifteen seconds...

Transmit, Mr. Spock! Now!
Ten seconds....

It appears that our message has been understood, Captain.
Any reply from them?

The 'puzzlement' I sensed was fleeting... minor... ... as if carrying a sense of our insignificance, Captain.
Our... 'insignificance'?

We are obviously confronted by a highly advanced mentality... yet they cannot understand who we are, or what we want.
But they understood our messages; they broke off the attack.

They may have attacked only as a warning to us, Captain. To keep away.
That would presuppose a feeling, Commander... compassion. I sensed no emotion, only... ... pure logic.

Thirty seconds to Cloud boundary...
Opinion, Mister. Spock?

Recommend we proceede, Captain.
Mr. Decker... ?

I advise caution, Captain; we can't withstand another attack.
That thing is twenty hours from Earth. We know nothing about it yet.

That's precisely the point, Captain. We don't know it will do. Moving into the cloud -- at this time, is an unwarranted gamble.
How do you define unwarranted, mister?!
You asked my opinion, sir.

Fifteen seconds to Cloud Boundary.
Viewer, standard ahead.

Mr. Sulu, steady as she goes.
Aye, sir.

No vessel could generate a powerfield of this magnitude...
Instruments fluctuating, Captain. Patterns unrecognizable.

That vessel is generating a forcefield measurably greater than the radiation of the Earth's sun.
Transmit image of the Alien to Starfleet; advise we are attempting further communication.

Reduce magnification. Factor 4, Mr. Sulu.
We're already two settings below that, sir.
Adjust parallel course, Navigator. Bring us in to one hundred kilometers distance.

One hundred kilometers...
Hold relative position here...

Computer off!
It's taken control of the computer...!
It's running our records! Starfleet strength, Earth defenses...

We could have cut it off at the main computer...
This served the purpose.

The ship is under attack...! Man all defensive stations...!
Forcefields, full remaining strength...! Total reserve!

Captain, we have been seized by a tractor beam...!
Get someone up here to take the Navigator's station...! Engineering... full emergency power!

We cannot break free, Captain. We do not have a fraction of the power necessary.
Delay that order, Scotty...! Disengage all main drive systems!

Why bring us inside? Not to destroy us; they could have done that outside.
They could have many ways of destroying things, Mr. Decker.

Viewer ahead.
Viewer ahead, sir.

Maneuvering thrusters, Mr. Sulu; ahead one third. Full sensor scan, Mr. Spock; they can't expect us not to look them over now!
Thrusters ahead, one third.

Hold station...!
Thrusters at station keeping...

Have you been able to analyze any of this...?
I believe the light flares to be energy fields -- undoubtedly part of the vessel's inner mechanism. A technology so incredibly sophisticated that I cannot --

Deck four, Captain; Officers' Quarters...!
Have a security team meet me at Deck Four main elevator!

Who is...'V'ger'...?
V'ger is that which programmed me.
Is V'ger the Captain of the alien vessel?

Where is Lt. Ilia?
That unit no longer functions. I have been given its form to more readily communicate with the carbon-based units infesting Enterprise.

Why does V'ger travel to the third planet of the solar system directly ahead?
V'ger travels to the third planet to find the Creator.

Find the Creator? What Creator? Whose...!? What does V'ger want of the 'Creator'... ?
To join with him.

The Creator is that which created V'ger.
Who is V'ger?
V'ger is that which seeks the Creator.

The examination is a normal function.
You may proceede.

Captain... this probe may be a key a key to the Aliens.
It's a programmed mechanism, Mr. Spock...
We have just seen that its body duplicates our navigator in precise detail. Suppose that beneath its programming, the real Ilia's memory patterns are duplicated with equal precision.

They had a pattern to follow...
... they may have followed it too precisely.
Ilia's memory, her feelings of loyalty, friendship, obedience... might all be there.

Exactly. And you did have a 'relationship' with Lieutenant Ilia, Commander.
That probe in there -- in a different form now -- is the same thing that killed Ilia!

Spock? Concerned about his chances?
I am uneasy with that being our only hope of more information.

The crews of the previous Enterprises were also carbon units. In what way is the life form in your vessel different?
Carbon units are not true life forms... Do those images repre- sent how Enterprise has evolved into its present form?
Yes.
Carbon units have clearly retarded Enterprise's proper evolvement.
What is Enterprise's proper evolvement?
Enterprise should not require the presence of carbon units.

Enterprise would be unable to function without carbon units.
More data concerning this functioning is necessary before carbon units can be patterned for data storage.

What does that mean?
When my examination is complete, the carbon units will be reduced to data patterns.

Within you are memory patterns of a carbon unit. If I can help you revive these patterns; you could understand our functions better.
That is logical. You may procede.

Starfleet signals, sir, growing in strength... They -- have Intruder on their monitors -- it's decelerating -- powerfield cloud beginning to dissipate...
Confirm, Captain. Lunar beacons indicate Intruder on a course into Earth orbit...

Sir! Airlock four has been opened; a thruster suit is reported missing!
Spock...! Get a fix on his position!

Does V'ger object to the presence of the two carbon units?
The carbon units are of no consequence; V'ger will determine their purpose.

You said V'ger's purpose was to find and join with the Creator.
That is how V'ger will survive.

Bridge, cancel rescue teams. Spock, what in the hell are you doing out here!
I am seeking answers, Captain.
Answers to what, Spock? Our dilemma -- or your personal one?

It would appear that the atomic arrays of these crystals store information. A remarkably efficient system.
And these 'sensor-swarms' collect that data, carry it here.
New crystals: they must contain the most recent data obtained --

Klingons... our Epsilon 9 station ... and Ilia!! They seem to be more than just images...
Exact patterns. The energy bolt that hit them wasn't simply a weapon -- it dematerialized them, stored them. But why?

If this is their ship's data banks, where is the crew? Or is their entire ship automated?
Captain, I do not believe there is a crew -- or that this is a vessel as such.

Were you right? Spock? V'ger is a living machine...?
A life form of its own; a conscious, living entity.

What should you have known?
No meaning... No hope... And, Jim, no answers...! Jim, it's looking for answers itself!
What answers?
'Is this all I am? Is there not more?'

A machine...! Then it had to be programmed. By whom...?
By the Creator.
To join, and become One with the Creator?
To learn all that is learnable; to deliver all collected data to the Creator on the third planet. That is the programming.

As I stated, V'ger calls to the Creator.
V'ger is announcing that it has arrived, sir -- that it's ready to deliver the information it was programmed to collect...
'To learn all that is learnable.'
It expects a return signal now, ordering it to transmit that information to the Creator.

These read as identical composition... ... however, Captain, they measure several hundred times more powerful!
High mag, Mr. Sulu!

The third one is moving off too -- a fourth one is forming...
Urgent signal from Starfleet, Captain! All Earth defense systems have gone dead.

Why...?!
The carbon-units infection will now be removed from the Creator's planet.
Why?!
The Creator has not answered.
The carbon-units are not responsible for that.
You infest and control Enterprise. V'ger believes carbon-units interfere with the Creator in the same manner.

Then V'ger believes the Creator to be a machine too.
It seems we all imagine God in our own image.

Child...!?
Yes, Captain, a child: evolving into adulthood -- learning, searching -- instinctively needing.

Disclose the information.
Not until V'ger withdraws the devices orbiting the third planet.
KIRK UNIT! DISCLOSE THE INFORMATION!

Clear the bridge, Captain...?
That was the order, Mr. Sulu: Clear the bridge.

Kirk-unit, why do you not disclose information?
Because V'ger is going to destroy all the carbon units on the third planet.
They have repressed the Creator.
The information will not be disclosed.

Then V'ger must withdraw its orbiting devices.
V'ger will comply if the carbon units disclose the information.

The orbiting devices would be controlled from the point, then...?
Precisely.

Forward motion, Captain...!
A tractor beam...

Captain, what's the next move?
The question is, Mr. Decker, is there a next move...

Well, Mr. Decker, it seems my bluff is being called.
I'm afraid our hand is pretty weak, Captain. But it's the only game in town.

Mr. Chekov, when do those devices activate?
They reach final position in... Twenty-seven minutes -- mark.
Engineering...

Starfleet has been apprised of our situation, Captain.
Tractor beam remains constant...

Not for us?
No, Captain, not for us... for V'ger.

Has not, Doctor -- and now, because of what we are planning... will not...
There is no alternative.

Mr. Spock, what would V'ger need to fulfill itself?
V'ger has begun to understand the true limits of our universe, thereby realizing the existence of other dimensions. To fulfill itself it must evolve to a higher dimension; V'ger believes this can be achieved only by joining with the Creator.

Engineering... Status, Mr. Scott?
We're ready, sir.
Thank you, Scotty. Stand by.

Tractor beam strength lessening, Captain.
Mr. Scott... on my next signal.

Captain, the orbital device will not be triggered for twenty-two minutes...
The point...
The point is, Captain, twenty-two

, if we do not provide V'ger with certain information, we won't have twenty-two seconds; the plan must be implemented upon arrival.
Captain, we can't be sure that our... move... will actually save Earth.
No!

That transmitter is a vital link between V'ger and the Creator.
We have twenty-one minutes. Captain, we can still save V'ger... and ourselves.

Mr. Decker... I will contact you every five minutes. Otherwise... inform Mr. Scott immediately.
Captain... I'd like to go along...

V'ger plans to literally meld to reduce both itself and the Creator to patterns...
... and then to reassemble itself combined with the Creator. The most certain way of obtaining all the Creator's answers.

Our data is being prepared.
Answer!
We will answer and present proof of our answer when it is ready!

And when V'ger melds? What will happen to you?
It will... take me from you...

There's no way to know. V'ger expected it to be a machine -- some single entity. All of us here may be reduced into patterns...
That seems to be what it has planned -- to have the Creator physically present here.

The fault is here, sir, not in the transmission. The antenna leads have been disconnected. V'ger never intended to accept a transmitted signal.
Capture God! In order to retrieve V'ger's data, the Creator has to physically come here!...
And plug the signal directly into the circuitry at this... ... point here, Captain. It should pick up even a tricorder playback.
Enterprise, I want that signal again. Transmit!

Jim... he wants it.
You got the Enterprise, it's what you wanted. This is what I want. But, Jim... ... I'm the right choice for this mission.

Spock, we were its answer!
Yes, Captain. It needed our mortality, the fear of it, our struggle against it, our fears, our dreams...
... and the 'foolish' emotions which drive us?
I prefer your poet Dante's phrase -- 'the divine restlessness of the human spirit.'
<|endoftext|>
