I'll lead.
Why? Are we going dancing?

I said I'll lead.
What are you going to do, Cooper, throw yourself on a Bunsen burner? It's a bunch of businessmen touring a lab. We'll be out in no time.
I gotta keep you alive--it's in my contract.
If you're working for me you're going to do what I tell you.

Just get me a coke and don't argue with me, OK?
I'm not arguing. I'm just telling you what the deal is--Congresswoman.
Look Cooper I don't care what my father says, if you embarrass me here you're going to regret it, understand?

Anything else? Maybe a sandwich?
Just the soda, please. Cooper heads down the hall. Filmore watches him leave, sighs, then turns and smiles at the General manager:

Enjoying the tour so far?
Are you going to kill us?
I don't know. If you gave me a reason to...

How goes the roll call?
We're secured. Takeover team is in position and accounted for.

Henry, what exactly are these crazed gunmen demanding?
Th-they want t-twenty-f-five million dollars cash--or Chemco will be destroyed.
Twenty-five-million! And what will they do if the money isn't delivered?
Th-th-they'll kill one hostage every hour until it is--
Does that include Helen Filmore, United States congresswoman?
Y-yes--
Uh-oh! Do you know if the demands are being taken seriously at this point, or does Washington think these people are just a bunch of crazy fuckers playing games?
Well, I-I hope that--that--
Times up!

Came over the satellite. We're keeping the bird clear should they call back.
She's still alive.
The transmission is an hour old...

This was taken when Richter was arrested in Washington state, 1985. He was charged with interstate arms trafficking, skipped bail, and has since been a fugitive.
Chemco is willing to deal with him, meet his demands. I can have the money there in an hour.

And--of course there is the human cost, which is incalculable.
I'm sure you'll figure it out.

Who's Ryan Cooper?
I'll let the senator tell you.

What are we going to do!
Who's got matches?

I have a lighter!
Even better.

Have you broken it yet? We've got six more heads and that means six more hours.
I'm in to the directory but they've codified the stockpile--numerically.

Of course it's codified! Each number probably corresponds to a compound. Have them pull every compound from the lab and compare it to the codes till you figure it out--that's what you're here for.
I know what I'm here for-you don't need to remind me.

Something tells me you don't want to be on TV, friend.
Richter-we got a problem!

What now?
We're outta here--

Well?
We've prohibited the networks from broadcasting the transmissions.
Good.
We have a special forces squadron out of Thailand surrounding the compound as we speak.

And what exactly do they intend to do?
The ball is in Richter's court. But we're sure as hell not going to sit on our hands while he assassinates people--we're gonna stop the son-of- a-bitch!
I don't think you--grasp--the situation, Mr. Myers.

How well do you know this place?
We're on sublevel six. We'll pass some labs and then we'll hit the stairwell--
Are the labs in operation?
I don't see why they wouldn't be.
Good...

--be prepared.
We don't have time!
Yeah and we don't have much ammo either!

Let's move it we got company!
What happened!

So, what are we looking at White?
What do you mean?
What do they have in there that's so valuable? A cure for AIDS, a cure for cancer?
I assure you gentlemen if we had something of that magnitude it wouldn't be shelved in a lab somewhere...
Is there anything in there that can blow? We have to be ready for any contingency--
Mister Myers it is a chemical plant! There are a number of volatile compounds-- but they are safely stored away...

I don't know what hit us! We had them trapped on the stairwell. They could be anywhere now.
I now understand the expression "you get what you pay for!" A bunch of chumps!
Listen man, I don't need this shit--

KZ...7-0...7-0...nine. It checks out.
Excellent...excellent!

Just what the hell is he talking about?
We've...been developing a product... KZ 70709.

Why the hell didn't you tell us this was at stake!
Chemco's been developing nerve gas?

Chemco makes many things senator! We were under government contract!
I haven't been briefed on any such thing!
Apparently, this project is--unique. But it's heavily protected--all formulas are heavily codified!
What the hell is it, anyhow?
Well, it's a binary formula--a precise amount of two separate chemicals must be exposed to the nitrogen in the atmosphere simultaneously for it to work.
How much do they have?

Of the separate chemicals--I don't know, uh, offhand--
How much of this shit do they have, White!!
They must have got their hands on a test vial!
What does that mean?
There's enough in one vial...

How's the arm?
It's nothing to worry about.
We wouldn't have made it out without you. FILMORE Or without you.

Forget about it.
I wasn't angry with you I was angry with him.

He's a very stubborn man sometimes...
You should listen your old man more often. He's got principles.

What do you mean?
After Leizburg, he stuck his neck out to defend me. He's loyal to the end. Even if it's not--politically correct at the time.
What's that supposed to mean?
What do you think?
Let me tell you something Cooper! I never once bad-mouthed him during all those months--
No but you didn't defend him either! Didn't want to rock the boat. Guess the ride was too smooth. FILMORE I was acting under legal counsel!

Where the hell could they have gone!
What are you so worked up about jack? Fuck 'em--we don't need 'em.
I want the girl. I don't care about the rest--but a US congresswoman taken hostage will make for great copy. We'll make headlines all over the world...
You're fucking crazy Richter--you know that?

Cooper...
Yeah?...

I drew my gun, ran in the direction of the cries...violating the first rule of service...I let the Ambass- ador out of my sight.
What happened?
By the time I got back to the party our ambassador was face-down, in a bed of bloody azaleas.

You're a lot like my father, Cooper... you think with your heart.
Used to Filmore, used to.

That's it! Up ahead!
Where does it lead?
The maintenance hatch--it takes us outside the building!

What's happening at the waterfront?
We're almost done piping in directly to the Olympia. Should have it all in about an hour or so.
Excellent.

We got trouble. That bodyguard son- of-a-bitch has them running all over the field--just took out three on the north end!
Well get someone down there!
There isn't anyone! He's opened that whole sector now!

Is he with the girl?
I don't know--look! They can get in now, man! We got no one left to guard it!

Now what?
There's the fence...

I'm going first. Taking the fire. If we go out together we're all dead!
What are you talking about?
They probably have guards on the roof--and they're gonna be firing at me--not you! ATKINS What makes you so sure?
Because I'll be firing at them.
You're talking about committing suicide!

What about rule one: never let the person you are protecting out of your sight!
Rule two: without alternative, use yourself as a shield.

Go fuck yourself...
Hey now! No cussing on TV! Well in closing I'd like to say that there are two reasons to have that money outside in an hour. One is my perky co-anchor here, and the second is the lives of tens of thousands of people--people just like you and me!

I hope you don't mind all this--it's just that the networks will eat it up, you know...
You're going to pay for this...
You got it all backwards, Helen--but that's OK, you work for the government...

He wouldn't take it on the helicopters. He'd transport it through pipelines that connect Chemco to the waterfront...
What!
They were probably topping off a docked tanker while he stalled for time--without anyone being the wiser...

What about Cooper--where is he?
He's in there...

Our traveler's insurance, you know what I mean?
Gotcha. We've been filling barrels all day--we've got hell of a stockpile.
Good.
I say we head out.
Agreed--let's move it.
Are you hungry? We can discuss some final arrangements over some slop in the galley.
Captain it would be impossible to turn down such a gracious request.

My crew is going to work alongside with your men, don't worry--we're a team!
Why should I worry? Is there a problem?
Well, there was uh, a little dissent about the amount of the bonus--
Dissent?
You know, when we reach Kompong Som--

You understand that they're watching our every move right now--you think you're just going to sail away?
It seems to me we are just sailing away. They haven't sunk us yet, have they? Besides, don't you worry your pretty little head about that. It's all been taken care of.

I know you're not too happy at this point. It's too bad we weren't able to meet elsewhere, under different circumstances...
Like where--in your dreams?

Looks like Richter isn't acting alone--he's heading into some dangerous waters.
She's as good as gone...
You can't think like that! We're watching them like a hawk--he's bound to trip up, make one false move--

I suppose...you think I should thank you.
Yes, you should.

You see, it paid off--you broke away from the old guard, congresswoman. It won't be long till they're calling you Senator Filmore--
Shut up!

Come on, drink up.
I don't want any...
I insist...
I said I don't want any, goddammit!

Are we adrift--
If I don't get power up we are!
Drop the anchor!
We can't--it's power driven!
Get your men to do it!
The thing weighs more than a ton-- you want to roll up your sleeves and try it?!

Well Filmore--
Well Cooper...
Looks like you're not going to make that dinner after all...
I guess not Cooper...
<|endoftext|>
