What's in here then, lead?
It's my mother's piano.
A piano?

She looks tired.
She's stunted, that's one thing.

Oh no, it can't come now.
It must come.

She wants it to come.
Yes and so do I, but there are too few of us here to carry it. TOO - HEAVY

We can't leave the piano
Let us not discuss this further. I am very pleased....

What's he say?
Someone died here. It's tapu.
But we came down this way didn't we? I'm sure we did.

They want more money. They are trying to make two days out of it?
No, no they know another track - to the side of this.

Watch your feet!
Watch your feet!

Careful! Watch his hand.
Watch his hand

My REAL father was a famous German composer
Ohh the tag is broken.
.... They met when my mother was an opera singer... in Luxemburg...

I thought she met your father in Luxemburg.
Well, yes, in Austria where be conducted the Royal Orchestra.
And where did they get married?

Which mountains are those dear?
The Alps.
Ohhh I've never been there.
Mother used to sing the songs in German and her voice would echo across the valleys

One day when my mother and father were singing together in the forest, a great storm blew up out of nowhere. But so passionate was their singing that they did not notice, nor did they stop as the rain began to fall and when their voices rose for the final bars of the duet a great bolt of lightening came out of the sky and struck my father so that he lit up like a torch... And at the same moment my father was struck dead my mother was struck dumb! She- never-spoke-another-word.
Ohhh ... dear. Not another word From the shock, yes it would be.

Please take us to the beach where we landed.
I'm sorry, I can't do that. I don't have the time. Goodbye

Hello, then.
Hello.

Well you stopped combing your hair, which is a good thing, it was looking over done. You see these are the slits that the heads will go through, show him Nessie ... they'll be dead, the Reverend is going to use animal blood, no doubt it will be very dramatic. Tea!
It will be very dramatic.

What would you think if someone played a kitchen table like it were a piano?
Like it were a piano?
It's strange isn't it? I mean it's not a piano, it doesn't make any sound.

I knew she was mute, but now I'm thinking it's more than that. I'm wondering if she's not brain affected.
No sound at all?
No, it was a table.
Well, she was very violent with the gown. She tore off a chunk of lace. if hadn't been there I'd have sworn she'd used her teeth

Oh, yes, yes of course, a concern.
There is something to be said for silence
Oh indeed. Cotton'.

And with time she will, I'm sure, become affectionate.
Certainly, there is nothing so easy to like as a pet and they are quite silent.

Those 80 acres, that cross the stream, what do you think of them?
On your property?
Yes

Good, flatish land with reliable water, why? I don't have money. What are you about?
I'd like to make a swap.
What for?
The piano.
The piano on the beach? Ada's piano?

You'd have to organise it up here.
Yes, I thought that.
Well Baines the music lover, I never would have known. Hidden talents George.
I'll have to get lessons. It wouldn't be much use without them.
Yes, I suppose you would.

What on?
On your piano, that is the swap.

What does she say?
She says it's her piano, and she won't have him touch it. He's an oaf, he can't read, he's ignorant.
He wants to improve himself... and you will be able to play on it ... Teach him to look after it.

You have to wash them.
They are washed.

Wash them again.
The marks do not come out. They are scars and hardened skin.

She wants to see what you can do.
I'd rather not play. I want to listen and learn that way.
Everyone has to practice.
I just want to listen.

I got the good wife for you Peini. She pray good. Clean. Read Bible. You sleep her Peini. She chief daughter.
No, no bible readers.

Don't answer, he low born. Jun look at him, mongrel. Your wife where she?
She lives her own life in New Jersey, America.
You have spare wife here Peini. You get rnana for that. Our chief four wives.

I can't imagine a fate worse than being dumb. Turn around.
To be deaf?
Oh yes, dear too - TERRIBLE! AWFUL!"'

Well, that is a strong opinion.
Yes, it's unholy.

How are the lessons going? ADA nods enthusiastically. He's getting on all right? ADA nods again Good.
That is good, yes.

T-w~e-l-v~e.
Te, kawnarna paraikete mo te tahi hawlie 0 te whenna uci. UNSUBTITLED

Yes, why not.
Ada says you're doing well with the piano?

I'll have to come and hear you play. what do you play.
Nothing just yet

I know why Mr. Baines can't play the piano.
You've missed this bit.
She never gives him a turn.

And when is the next lesson?
Tomorrow.

He's given it to us.
Hah, you're very cunning Ada, but I've seen through you, I'm not going to lose the land this way. Wait here!

I don't think you should have given up the piano. I will make sure you are properly taught, with music written on to sheets and...
I don't want to learn.
You don't want to learn.
No.
And what does this do to our bargain? I cannot afford the piano if you mean me to pay.
No, no payment. I have given it back. I don't want it.
Well, I doubt I want it very much myself.
It was more to your wife that I gave it.
Well, thank you, I expect she will appreciate it.

Is it all right? Aren't you going to play something? ADA pulls up a chair and seats herself at the piano. She rubs her hands and places them lightly on the keys, she turns from habit over her left shoulder where STEWART waits crossed armed. Quickly she removes her hands, stands and gestures FLORA to play. FLORA proudly takes ~p the seat, she pulls her lips in trying to control her happiness to say in front of both her mother and STEWART.
What will I play?

Play a gig.
Do I know any gigs?
Play a song then

Ohhh, it's so dark, it's like a dank cave.
Yes, like a cave.
Ohh no, it makes my skin creep!

We have just come from George Banes' and they have taken him over. It is no wonder he is leaving, he has got in too deep with the natives. They sit on his floor as proud as Kings, but without a shred of manners.
... without a shred of manners.

He is quite altered, as if they had been trying some native witchcraft on him. Well tomorrow or the day after he will be gone.
Baines is packing up?
Well he has NOTHING to pack, but he is leaving. And it is just as well; Nessie has foolishly grown an affection for him ... we have had some tears

Mama.
Take this to Baines. Tell him if he ever tries to see her again I'll take off another and another and another!

Go Peini ... Haere atu e Peini.
I'll be back.

He says you're not to see her or he'll chop her up!
What happened?

Quiet down! Shhh! Where is she?
He chopped it off
Jesus! I'll kill him! I'll kill him. What did she tell him?

Has Ada ever spoken to you?
You mean in signs?
No, words. You have never heard words?
No, not words.

She has spoken to me. I heard her voice. There was no sound, but I beard it here . Her voice was there in my head. I watched her lips, they did not make the words, yet the harder I listened the clearer I heard her, as clear as I hear you, as dear as I hear my own voice.
Spoken words?
No, but her words are in my head. I know what you think, that it's a trick, that I'm making it up. No, the words I heard, were her words.
What are they?

I worry for you.
No, I love her, we will be a family. I have her piano. I will mend it, she will get better.
I miss you.

What did she say?
She says, throw the piano overboard.
It's quite safe, they are managing...

What?
She says, throw it overboard. She doesn't want it. She says it's spoiled
I have the key here, look, I'll have it mended...
<|endoftext|>
