... What were you saying, Admiral? Something about this 'not being a job for a wine-sniffing, skirt-chasing playboy spy?'
- I'll be sure to acknowledge 007's 'assistance' in my report to the Prime Minister. But this is, still, a naval operation.
What do they say in Russia, General Bukharin?

What about ID's?
One to seven: Deal the face cards.

But -
- Thank you, M. But this is more than your man can handle. Are we in agreement?

I appreciate your assistance, M. But this is now a military operation.
Bring up the tracking satellite. And get 007 out of there.

Oh, no.
Who is it?
Kim Dae Yung. North Korean Nuclear specialist.
Meaning there may be nuclear material down there?

Who is that?!? What's in the box??
I don't know. He's not in the database -
What's in the box, General? What's in the box???

Will it go off?
Maybe. Maybe not.
Abort the cruise.

It's too late -
GET BOND OUT OF THERE.

Soviet SB-9 nuclear torpedo. Yield, one kiloton.
Will the cruise set it off?
Yes.

... And what do you call these?
Ja-shwa tsway. These are lips.
Indeed they are. Deadly little things.

And what do you call these? The Gang of Two?
Stop it!
I was just getting to the interesting part!
We've already done the interesting part. Do you forget?
Remind me.

Sakwa!
Is that Mandarin, or Cantonese?
Mandarin. You jerk. I'm late. I have to get dressed.

I'm sure she is, James. But I'm afraid you'll have to 'kiss off' the rest of your lessons this afternoon.
Moneypenny... Here I was, finally getting a feel for a new tongue -
Four o'clock. M will meet you in the conference room.

4:30. It may take me a little longer to wrap things up here.
Four o'clock. Don't be late.
Tsi tien, Chien-penny.
Ah, James. You always were a cunning linguist... Au revoir, mon cher.

Tsi tien, Mr. Bond.
Tsi tien, Professor Wu.

Thank you Colonel Everhart. 007, I'd like to see you in my office. Why don't you and the Colonel exchange numbers if you need more information?
Yes, M.

Interesting presentation.
Interesting video tape.
They point, I shoot.
Do you have a pen? I just got promoted and don't have my new cards yet.
Of course.

... Does this do anything?
Depends what number you write.

Married?
Happily.
... Kids?
Three. You? Married?
No.
I didn't think so.

Here. I gave you my assistant's phone number. If it's urgent, she knows where to reach me.
Thanks. Take care -
You too.

Moneypenny! We've got to stop meeting like this. They may be on to us.
Hello, James. Enjoy your meeting?
In the darkest moments, it's what I live for. Especially since I've heard how much you like to watch... On the hidden camera.

By the way, James: Ordinarily I would never ask, but... Weren't you and that Colonel once stranded on a raft for two weeks in the Sargasso Sea?
Moneypenny! How indiscreet! Have you ever known me to kiss and tell?

Actually, I've never known you to do either... But -
- We all want what we can't have?
Not all of us, 007.

What - no lust for adventure?
No, 007. It's just that I've learned from personal experience - that when we get what we want - Somehow the reality is never as... Satisfying as the fantasy.

Come in, 007. You know the Minister?
Of course. Minister Johnstone.

Tell me, 007, what do you know about Elliot Harmsway?
Only what I read in the newspapers.

His newspapers?
Occasionally, yes. British media mogul. Born in Hong Kong; controls newspapers, TV, radio, cable, satellites; books, magazines, movies, computer software. Theme parks.

- Along with Tomorrow - the first world-wide newspaper. Circulation 27 million. Daily. -
'Able to topple governments with a single story' - as he says in his press.

... What's Harmsway done?
It seems, 007, we've received a tip

More scurrilous, unsubstantiated gossip.
Perhaps. But it does explain how an ex-KGB agent turned illegal-arms dealer is suddenly portrayed as a long-time friend of the people. If you believe what you read in the papers.
Need I remind the two of you that Elliot Harmsway - Sir Elliot Harmsway - is directly descended from the Earl of Aberdeen? That his Scottish ancestors practically invented Hong Kong - and out of sheer gratitude, Queen Victoria herself named the port "Aberdeen Harbor" in their honor?

The reason I invited the Minister here, 007, was to reassure him that this investigation will be handled with the utmost discretion.
Of course.
Which is also why I've withheld this information from NATO and our allies.
... Didn't we once investigate Harmsway?
Yes. 1988. He was furious at the British plan to return Hong Kong, and supposedly started his own negotiations with the Chinese Government. The inquiry went nowhere - but it did earn MI-6 a rather powerful enemy -

You're to wear this mask at the Venice Carnival, and wait to be contacted.
I understand.

There is one last thing, 007: Elliot Harmsway is vital to the economic interests of this nation. He's also a major contributor to the party. I expect him to be given every consideration.
Political considerations?
To the best of my recollection, Mr. Bond, I suggested no such thing. In fact, I was never here.

.... I hate to ask, but... Did you ever think you'd miss Communism?
We serve the interests of the British people, 007. No matter who we may be foolish enough to elect.

But if Elliot Harmsway is involved with that uranium, I want him prosecuted to the ends of the earth.
Hopefully, it won't get that far.

Okay, Saunders. What is it this time? Rocket in the leg? Machine pistol in the arm?
Q's retirement party. I'd just put the knife into the cake, and -
Come on. I know better than that -

It must do something.
Well... If you insist.

Now pay attention, 007. We haven't much time to demonstrate your new Q toys.
How is old Q?
Gone fishing.
Fishing?
Big game fishing. Sonar torpedoes. Retirement gift from his friends at the CIA.

Saunders, I've lit cigarettes -
Not from forty feet.

... Shoelaces?
Plastique explosive shoelaces. Cut them to regulate the size of the blast; totally harmless until you attach the detonator hidden in the heel of your shoe.
Perfect way to tie up a... 'Knotty' problem?
Moving along - A typical plastic security card. Name here, magnetic information stripe here - And a code breaking microprocessor here. Swipe it through any card reader - anywhere - you're in.
Does it work on cash machines?

It was an authorized test. I returned the money.
I see...
Finally, your new watch: Blue laser here for signaling or burning through locks; press this button, the sweep hand becomes a Geiger counter.
If you can't do the time, don't do the crime?
Oh. I almost forgot. There is one last thing: Before Q retired, he asked that I give you one other protective device.

A wedding band??? What am I supposed to be able to do with this?
I believe Q's exact words were: "Hopefully, nothing."

...I'll give you a ring from Venice.
Good luck on your mission, 007.

Paris?!? What are you doing here?
Is that any way to say hello?
I thought your specialty was good-bye.

Oh, James. I've missed you -
Is this another one of your games?
Stop it! You're hurting me! Can't you just be nice?
I've got half the British government breathing down my neck. I don't have time for your nonsense.

Don't you even miss me? Didn't I mean anything to you?
Nothing.

What about Elliot Harmsway? Or is this just another one of your stunts?
No! He's crazy - he's insane. He hates everybody. He's got these plans - You've got to help me, James. I'm sorry. I'm sorry for everything. I know I was wrong - but you've got to protect me. I know you still love -

Do you feel better now?
Do you?

What about the uranium?
It's on the boat. He's holding a press conference tomorrow.

I'm so sorry, James. I promise, I'll never leave you again.
Shhhhh...
Just hold me.

Always nice to meet one of her Majesty's fellow subjects... Especially one with such distinguished friends.
You might say I've always been one of Mr. Valentin's biggest followers.

It's a beautiful boat, Sir Elliot. Practically glows in the dark.
I can tell you're a man with an eye for exquisite possessions, Mr. Bond. Darling! Come here. I want you to meet my wife.

Paris -
Leave me alone! He's going to kill me!!
Why didn't you tell me? Why wasn't it in our files?
He didn't want anyone to know. He kept it out of the papers. He said a third wife was bad for his image. You've got to protect me!

Just - say it. Say it just once.
One thing at a time. I'll see you in twenty minutes. Go.

I hope you've enjoyed this little charade.
Which part? The Colonel's? Or yours?
A piece of advice, Mr. Bond: Don't screw with a man who buys ink by the ton. It's deadlier than uranium.
We'll see about that.

That was too close.
Don't worry. Mr. Bond will get the message. So will his boss.

I regret to inform you, sir, that Saddam Hussein is still demanding a bonus for his role in the Gulf War.
...Haven't we already paid him for his services?
Yes, sir. But he still feels his people should share in the increased profits of our news division. He has proposed an additional 500 million dollar payment.

... And there's no truth that 10% of that money will go into your Swiss bank account?
No sir! I swear! This is not true!!
You disappoint me, Number Three.

Please sir. Please -
...But because I am a just man, I've decided to give Mr. Hussein what he deserves.

Mr. Stamper will escort you to the plane.
Thank you sir! Thank you!

Damn. It's doing it again.
What's wrong?
About every ninety seconds, the auto- pilot jogs us to the west.

The back-up does the same thing.
Check it again. What about the global positioning satellite? Could there be something wrong with the signal?

How is it now?
Seems to be back to normal, sir.

A dead head. Water logged timber. Floats straight up. You sometimes see them on the east side of the channel - from the logging camps on Sumatra - but they don't usually float this far west. Muncy! Engines to half!
Aye-aye sir. Engines to half.
Chew up a log like that in the propeller, you end up with enough paperwork to go from here to London. Twice.

Good evening. I've just spoken with the Prime Minister at the economic summit in Tokyo; he's expecting a full update within the hour. For those of you still unaware, some forty minutes ago -
Excuse me, but - I must formally protest this meeting. Given the nature of what's occurred - and the need for secrecy - I see no reason to involve the air force, the army, or MI-6. This is an internal affair that should be handled strictly by the officers of her Majesty's Royal Navy.
Admiral, are you suggesting -

Sorry I'm late -
Actually, you're just in time. Admiral Roebuck: You know Commander Bond, don't you?

Why wasn't the ship protected?!?! Why was it sailing without radar?
I resent your tone, sir. I have men who are missing -
And I have the entire British economy to worry about.

At least we know where the gold is. When are the recovery ships due?
36 hours. They've already sailed from the Persian gulf.
I expect to have that gold recovered in 36 hours. Until then, I'm imposing my own electronic silence: For the sake of the economy, not a word to NATO, the press, the CIA. ...And so long as Commander Bond here seems to be such an expert on these matters, I want him to go along as an observer. Are we agreed?

Is the helicopter ready?
Fueled and waiting.
Good. We have an appointment in Hong Kong.

...You're turning into quite the politician, 007.
I have an excellent teacher. 'Make sure you wear the uniform'?
What do you make of all this?
It doesn't quite add up.

The infrared satellite images. No heat, no flame, no explosion. If that boat went down where they said it did, there should have been some residual heat reading on the surface.
Sabotage?
A three-thousand ton frigate doesn't just vanish into thin air.

The Canadian Prime Minister wants to set a lunch -
Pencil it in for the next trip -
The American presidential candidate called to complain about that sex story -
Send him a $10,000 campaign contribution, and explain I have no control over what my journalists write -
Your bankers want an answer about the Brazilian TV stations
No -
The Queen invited you to dinner -
Yes -
And the 9:30 news meeting is waiting.
Excellent.

Wade, what the hell are you doing here?
I am not here, ol' buddy. The CIA has absolutely no knowledge of the missing ship, the missing gold, where it was going, or when it left Hong Kong.
That's reassuring.
Hey - the world is my office.
Let's take a look at the body.

I don't know if you'd call it a boat...
Something with an engine? Not oars?
Step into my office.

What do you want with the Harbor Master?
Tide and current charts. Work backward from the body - find where the ship sank. Where did you get the boat?
Seized it from a guy smuggling computer chips out of Bangkok. Should have seen his rose garden: Blooms the size of hand grenades.

I think I've just seen my next future ex-wife.
Not if you kill us first - unless that's how you plan to leave Muffy.

Natalya?
Yeah. Russian Minister of Transportation.
She married a hockey player.
I envy your 'undercover' assignments.
We work in the dark. We do what we can.

I have to get these to London. Do you know this Captain Cheong?
Spends his nights at the Kuala Lumpur yacht club.
Can you arrange a meeting?
Hell. The CIA built that club.

In the Strait of Malacca, when a boat is even five minutes late, one begins to worry, Mr. Bond.
I know. Pirates from Sumatra want the cargo; smugglers from Thailand and Burma want the ships.
Sometimes kill the crew; other times - Torture them.
I'm sorry.
The Kuala Lumpur ferry was 35 miles off-course that night. Captain blamed the auto-pilot; I suspected he was drunk - until the Sumatra ferry captain had same problem.
Did you test the auto-pilots? The satellite positioning receiver?
Next morning. Both boats. Nothing wrong. My 90 year old grandfather thinks 'Ghost in the computer - Silicon Dragon.'
I appreciate your time -
Maybe you should talk to Sidney Winch. Owns a marine salvage company. Nobody knows more about the Strait.
Where can I find him?
Him? He, is a she - at the bar.

Bourbon. Neat.
I wonder if you handle your liquor more carefully than you handle your boat.

Sometimes, you just have to plunge into things. Be reckless.
- And I bet you always leave turmoil in your wake.
Have we met?
This afternoon. Our boats practically kissed in the harbor. James Bond.
Sidney Winch.

Vodka martini, shaken not stirred. And another for you?
No. But you can buy a drink for my friend, Taro.

Boyfriend?
Chaperone. I'm waiting for my dinner date.
Pity. Bring him whatever he wants.
So what brings you to Kuala Lumpur, Mr. Bond? Wait - don't tell me: Unhappy marriage? Running from some poor little girl with two kids and a Chanel pocketbook in - London?

Actually, I'm here on business. You might say it was a... Golden opportunity.
And exactly what business are you in, Mr. Bond?
Insurance. Lloyds of London.
The Strait can be a very dangerous place, Mr. Bond. A few words scribbled on a piece of paper in London doesn't carry a lot of value out here. Including life insurance.
I'll keep that in mind.
I see my date is here. And I think Mr. Bond is ready to leave.
Nice to run into you again.
Let's not make it a habit.

Yo! Jimbo! I won five hundred - What happened?
He tied one on.

Q! How are you?
Retired. I'm not getting paid to help you save the world anymore.
I'm sorry. It was a national emergency -
That hardly makes up for the imposition. Now, for what I hope will be the very last time - pay attention, 007. First, computer generated retrograde analysis map. Body here, meteorolog- ical influences here, likely vector- ing of the ship's coordinates here.
Do you have any idea of what any of that means? In English?
Not a clue. I didn't lose the ship. Next, your new personal communicator. Picture-phone, fax, beeper.
Do I have to dial '9' to get out?
I don't care who you dial, so long as it's not me. Next -

Your new car.
- Four wheel drive?
Yes. And do try to keep all four of them on the road. All the usual refinements: Smoke, missiles, machine guns - Fully operational remote control. Drives forward, reverse - Stop that! Plus infrared thermal imaging radar, heads up instrumentation, and 17 beverage cup holders.
... 17 Beverage cup holders?
Standard equipment. The world's automobile manufacturers seem to be in some kind of mad war to see who can provide the most beverage cup holders.

I must say, Q, you seem to be doing rather well in your retirement.
Don't even think about it. 007. They're my granddaughters.

I dunno, Jimbo. It can't be out here. How could they get this far off course?
Who knows? Fog, night...
They'd never sail this close to the shore.
Wait a minute - I've got it. There! Off the port bow!

I got you covered.
That's reassuring.

Sidney Winch, meet -
Jack Wade. Citibank. Commercial loan division. If you're ever lookin' for a sweet refinance on the boat -

- Shut up!
You have to excuse Miss Winch: She thinks she's on a 'seduce and destroy' mission through life... ...But she won't kill us.
No?
No. First, because I don't think it's in your nature. And second, because there's no gold down there.
So charming! So suave! Don't insult me. I'm not one of your 'little London girls' who falls for the lies.

Do I have to do everything around here?
I hope so.

I hope you'll be gentle.
Think about mom.

And what do you call this?
- The family jewels?

If I were you -
- You're not.
Just remember: They think there's ten billion dollars in gold down there.
Thank you. "Now hear this: Drop dead."

Who's in charge here?
I am. What do you want?
You have precisely one minute to pull up your anchor and be under way.
Forget it. No way. I got here first.
Who's Wade?

Yes -
Guard! Arrest these men! Escort them to the cutter!

Wait a minute -
Get them out of here. If he says one word, shoot him.

What's your name?
Captain Morton.

My name is Sidney Winch, and -
Good for you, Miss Winch. You now have exactly 30 seconds to get this rust bucket out of here.
I know my rights. These are international waters. The British Navy abandoned that boat, and I'm claiming it. Under international law, I have the right to salvage what's on that wreck.
Fifteen seconds. Perhaps you should consider hiring an attorney.
I was an attorney!
Hmmm. I suppose this is a step above that profession. Ten seconds. Are you leaving?
No.
You leave me no alternative.

You won't get away with this!
Good-day, Miss Winch. I advise you to get some steam up - before you run aground.

Don't you think you're overreacting?
Yes. The famous James Bond. I've heard all about you, sir. You were under direct orders to act as an observer - and yet you had to go off, on your own, like some half-assed CIA cowboy - Endangering the gold, attracting that lunatic woman, and then putting in a distress call for us to save your bloody hide.
...That's all well and good, Captain, save for one thing: There's no gold down there.
What are you talking about? We went through all this and the ship isn't even down there?
Yes, the ship is down there. But the gold is gone.
That's absurd! It took two squads of forty men fifteen days to load that gold.
I know what I saw -

Where to now, Jimbo?
I'm not certain... But I think there's someone I want to press for some answers in Kuala Lumpur.

How did you get this number?
Oh, please, Mr. Bond. We live in the information age! Information is currency - and with the right currency, you can have any piece of information. Besides I own the phone company. What do you say? Twenty minutes?
I'm on my way.

Mr. Bond! Nice to see you.
Sir Elliot.
Come. Let's get out of the noise. - I'll give you a tour of the building, then we'll talk.

Before I became involved with Paris, she was always involved with the most inappropriate' men... Playboys. Thrill seekers. Middle aged Peter Pans who only brought out the worst in her.
I see.
I tried to save her. But she remained a manic depressive: Fits, inappropriate behavior... Delusions of grandeur.
I wonder if it runs in the family.
The only difference between a psychopath and a genius, Mr. Bond, is the degree of success.

Still, I do miss her. I only wish she could have lived to see all this.
I can feel your pain.

By the way - what is it that brings you to Kuala Lumpur, Mister Bond?
Sightseeing.

I call this the Rogue's gallery.
Yes. I can see: You've hung the rest of your relatives.
My third great Uncle - the Earl of Aberdeen - negotiated the purchase of Hong Kong from the Chinese. His son-in-law - George Harmsway - made the first family fortune, running opium into Shanghai... His son, Thomas, who lost it, smoking the opium... And my grandfather Henry, who opened the first telegraph station, and published the colony's first English newspaper. It was a city of unlimited possibility.
So why did you leave?
Because it's a dying city. Since the Chinese take-over, who knows what can happen tomorrow? In any case, this is my father, Charles: A royal bastard who started the first radio and television stations. Said I'd never amount to anything, but... I turned it into this

Welcome to the new world order, Mr. Bond. Churchill had his armies; Caesar had his legions; I have my divisions: News, sports, business, entertainment. And these are my foot soldiers: 2000 people working on 14 floors to feed 300 newspapers, 4 cable news networks, 87 magazines, and 29 different cable TV channels - in 35 languages.
And still not a thing to watch.

...Although it must be fun to have all those satellites.
They're merely tools to disseminate information.
Or disinformation... If you wanted to, say, beam down a signal to send a ship off course? Maybe one degree a minute?
Fantastic idea Mr. Bond! Perhaps I should buy it for a book! It's totally preposterous, but - You amuse me. ...And now perhaps I can amuse you.

You see, Mr. Bond, you and I are both men of action. But your era is passing. Words are the new weapons; satellites the new artillery. And make no mistake about it: In the right hands, they can be as deadly as your Walther PPK.
...Words to live by?
Your choice. Look at the time! Come. There's someone I want you meet - about a story I'm thinking of publishing.

What is HE doing here?
I see you two have met.

Briefly.
Don't pout, Sidney. I invited him here hoping he might shed some light on your story. He's from 'Lloyd's of London.' ...Aren't you, Mr. Bond?

Obviously, the British government denies all of this -
- I told you! He was there! -
- But as I've explained to Sidney, without proof, there's just no story. Don't you agree Mr. Bond?

...And what's that, my dear?
Sidney, perhaps we should leave this to -

He brought that up from the wreck.
...I see.

Why don't we just take these -
No. I want Sir Elliot to keep them.

...Well! I do believe this requires further investigation!
Thank you, Uncle Elliot.
No matter what the British government says, I won't kill this story. Miss Oxford will show both of you to the elevator... And one of my people will definitely be in touch sooner than later.

I'm sure they will.
Good-bye, Mister Bond.

... Do you have a gun?
What?
You heard me. A gun? I left mine in the car.
That's funny: you struck me as the kind of man who always carries protection.
Listen to me! I'm a British secret service agent. And we have about two minutes before Harmsway kills both of us.

Harmsway sank that ship and stole the gold. It's on the Sea Dolphin II. And thanks to your little show and tell - - giving him the evidence - We're the only ones who can tie him to the crime.
Elliot Harmsway is my Uncle!
Blood or Dutch?
He was my father's best friend!
He's killed closer.
You are seriously deranged.
Maybe. But why are we going up instead of down?

This has got to be a mistake.
The only mistake is that they didn't kill us in the elevator.

Wait here.
No. I'm going with you.

... How did you get into marine salvage?
My father left me the business.

Not a lot of difference.
What do you mean?

What the hell does that do?
Cleans dirt. Let's go.

It's a trick! After him. They're in the south stairwell!
Get more men up there!

Down?
Up.

What now? And don't give me some movie clich like 'trust me.'
Trust me.

They're on the bridge. Seal off the 50th floor!
I should have hired this man. Get somebody up there!

Put your back to the railing. Sit up on it.
Are you listening to me?
Put your arms around my neck. Lock your legs around my waist.
... We have time for that?

Sometimes you just have to -
Don't say it.

Is this - like - a normal day for you?
It's a lousy job, but - The only reason I stay is for the health benefits.

Are your guards really going to kill a helpless girl?
My guards are from South Africa, Mr. Bond. This is their chance to get even with the formerly 'Great' Britain. Now both of you. Put your hands on your heads, and step forward.

Here. You shoot. I'll drive.
...You know, that's another reason you're probably not in a successful relationship.
Another reason??? Did I miss something???
You insist on calling all the shots. And by the way: I am not a helpless girl.

If it's radio controlled, it'll break the code.
If not?
We blast through.

- Built to withstand a nuclear blast. Are they alive?
Yes. Shall we kill them?
No. I have a better idea. In fact, Mr. Bond may have actually improved my original plan. Bring them both to Hong Kong. And Make sure he has nothing else up his sleeve.

Sleep well?
Next time, I do the driving.

The drill is in the water; approaching the intake tunnel.
Excellent.

Please, Sidney. I'd like to remember you fondly.
Approaching the first gate.
Start the grinders.

...So that's what the weapons grade uranium was for.
Precisely, Mr. Bond. In a matter of minutes, the boring device will arrive at the core of the reactor... And when the radioactive blades cut into the plutonium -
- Instant melt-down.
Chernobyl will look like a campfire.

Bore through. ...They used to say living well was the best revenge, Mr. Bond. They're wrong. Revenge is the best revenge.
Entering the main tunnel - ten minutes to target -

Hong Kong, Mr. Bond!
You have to leave -
A hundred and fifty years ago, my ancestors took this island - a barren, lifeless rock - and turned it into the greatest city known to modern civilization. And now that I'm being forced to give it back, I intend to return it in exactly the same condition: A barren, lifeless rock. The gold is merely reparations - payment from the spineless British government who wouldn't listen.

...As the advertising says: Tomorrow never lies.
What about the gold?

How sweet.
My timing always was lousy.

I'd rather die alone.
Take the girl. Leave the handcuffs. We'll drown her at sea.

Take the men. I can finish alone.
You come with me - You stay here.

What the hell is going on?
It's Bond!
Kill him! Finish it!

What do you mean, you'd rather die alone?
I didn't say when I want to die -

... Yes???
Before we go any further here, Mr. Bond, from Lloyds of London, I just want to get two things straight.
... Yes?
First, that boat is in international waters. I'm claiming it for salvage. One-third of that gold is mine.
And number two?
If you think we're going to have some kind of 'life affirming' romance here just because we cheated death, let me be clear: We're going to have it where I want, and when I want.
And when might that be?
Now.
<|endoftext|>
