How are you, Keaton?
I'd have to say my spine was broken, Keyser.

Ready?
What time is it?

Now remember, this is another kind of business. They don't earn your respect. You owe it to them. Don't stare them down but don't look away either. Confidence. They are fools not to trust you. That's the attitude.
I'm having a stroke.
You've come far. You're a good man. I love you.

Let's say for example -
This I had to see myself.

I know you. You don't think I know you're on the take. This whole fucking precinct is dirty. You don't have a fucking leg to stand on.
Hockney was just a bad bastard. Good with explosives. Mean as a snake when it mattered .

with what?
You know damn well, dead-man.
Hey, that was your mistake, not mine. Did you ever think to ask me? I've been

You're fuckin' A right, no P.C. Well screw P.C. No right. No goddamn right. You do some time, they never let you go. Treat me like a criminal, I'll end up a criminal.
You are a criminal.
Why you gotta go and do that? I'm trying to make a point.

You heard right.
The word I got is you hung up your spurs, man. What's that all about?

I'd say you've gotten on his main and central nerve, McManus.
Do your friend a favor, Fenster, keep him quiet .

Forget him. It's not important. I was trying to make a point.
This whole thing was a shakedown.

How many times have you been in a line- up? It's always you and four dummies. The P.D. pays homeless guys ten bucks a head half the time. No way they'd line five felons in the same row. No way. And what the hell is a voice line-.up? A public defender could get you off of that.
So why the hell was I hauled in and cavity searched tonight?
It was the Feds. A truck load of guns gets snagged, Customs comes down on N.Y.P.D. for some answers - they come up with us. They're grabbing at straws. It's politics - nothing you can do.
I had a guy's fingers in my asshole tonight.

Fuck you. I'11 never shit right again. So who did it? Own up.
I don't want to know.

He's alright.
How do I know that? How about it, pretzel-man? What's your story?
His name is Verbal Kint. I thought you guys knew him.

Roger really. People say I talk too much.
Yeah, I was gonna tell you to shut up.

We've met once or twice. Last time was in...
County. I was in for fraud.
You were waiting for a line-up then, too. What happened with that?
I walked. Ninety days, suspended.

Why don't you just calm down'
What do you care what he says?

My client offers his full cooperation in these proceedings. In exchange, his testimony is to be sealed and all matters incriminating to himself are to be rendered inadmissible.
The district attorney's office will comply provided -
No provisions, nothing. My clients testimony for his immunity.
May-I be frank, Counselor? I suspect your political power as much as I respect it. I don't know why Mr. Kint has so many faceless allies in City Hall, and I don't care. The embarrassment he helped cause the city of New York will not happen here.
Immunity.

Counselor, I will prosecute your client.
Then prosecute. I will be very impressed to see if the District Attorney manages to bring in twenty-seven simultaneous counts of murder against one man with cerebral palsy. I would think a man with your job would agree with these alleged &quot;faceless people in City Hall&quot; you mention.

I'11 take my chances then. I'11 feel safer without a job if a man like Mr. Kint is behind bars.
Mr. Kint will plead guilty to weapons possession.
You're joking.
Weapons. Misdemeanor one.
Counselor, you're insulting me.
Counselor, you're bluffing. Shall I push for misdemeanor two?

What do you mean I can't see him?
The D.A. came down here last night ready to arraign before they even moved him to county. Kint's lawyer comes in and five minutes later, the D.A. comes out looking like he'd been bitch-slapped by the boogey man. They took his statement and cut him a deal.
Did they charge him with anything?

Weapons. Misdemeanor two.
What'the fuck is that?

When does he post bail?
Two hours, tops.
I want to see him.

Even if I was to let you talk to him, he won't talk to you. He's paranoid about being recorded and he knows the interrogation rooms are wired
This won't be an' interrogation, just a... friendly chat to kill time.

He won't go into the interrogation room.
Someplace else, then.
Where?

No, no, no, no, no.
If it was a dope deal, where's the dope, if it was a hit, who called it in?
And I am sure you have a host of wild + theories to answer these questions.
You know damn well what I think.

That's crazy, Dave and it doesn't matter. He has total immunity and his story checks out. He doesn't know what you want to know.
I don't think he does. Not exactly, but there's a lot more to his story. I want to know why twenty-seven men died on that pier for what looks to be ninety-one million dollars worth of dope that wasn't there. Above all, I want to be sure that Dean Keaton is dead.

Verbal, you know we're trying to help you.
Sure. And I appreciate that. And I want to help you, Agent Kujan. I like cops. I would have liked to have been a Fed myself but my C.P. was -
Verbal, I know you know something. I know you're not telling us everything.
I told the D.A. everything I know.

I know you liked Keaton I know you think he was a good man.
I know he was good.
He was a corrupt cop, Verbal.

Sure. Fifteen years ago, but he was a good thief Anyway, the cops wouldn't let him go legit.
Keaton was a piece of shit.

You trying to get a rise out of me, Agent Kujan?
I just want to hear your story.

According to your statement you are a short-con operator. Run of the mill seams. Everything you do, you learned from somebody else.
That's been suppressed. Anything in there is inadmissible.
Oh, I know. Sweet deal you have. Total immunity .
Well I do have the weapons charge. I'm looking at six whole months hard time.
You know a dealer named Ruby Deemer, Verbal?
You know a religious guy named John Paul?
You know Ruby is in Attica?
He didn't have my lawyer.
I know Ruby. He's very big on respect. Likes me very much.

There's nothing in there about Ruby.
I'11 be sure to mention that to him.

The first thing I learned on the job, know what it was? How to spot a murderer. Let's say you arrest three guys for the same killing. Put them all in jail overnight. The next morning, whoever is sleeping is your man. If you're guilty, you know you're caught, you get some rest - let your guard down, you follow?
No.
I'11 get right to the point. I'm smarter than you. I'11 find out what I want to know and I'11 get it from you whether you like it or not.
I'm not a rat.

...and the desk Sergeant is actually trying to tell me he can't release you? Can you believe that? You weren't even charged. New York police - Jesus. I want to take pictures of your face to bring to the D.A. first thing in the morning.
Just forget about it.

I'11 have this thing in front of a grand jury by Monday.
Edie, please. I don't want to hear this right now. What did Renault and Fortier say?
They want more time to think about investing.
Goddamnit.
They just said they wanted time.
Time for what, Edie? Time to look into me a little more, that's what. No matter how well you cover my tracks now, they'll find out who I am.

Give me some credit. I got you this far, let's go to the grand jury. This is never going to stop if we -
No. It's never going to stop, period. It won't take more than a week before every investor in this city is walking away from us. It's finished. I'm finished.

Don't give up on me now, Dean.
They'll never stop.
I love you.
They ruined me tonight.
Dean, I love you. Do you hear me?

Come home, Dean.
Alright.

How do you do?
Verb - Roger, this is Edie Finneran. Edie, this is Roger Kint, he was at

I know who he is.
I hope I didn't disturb you.
I hope so, too, Mr. Kint. Can I get you something to drink?
A glass of water would be nice.

What the hell do you want?
I wanted to talk to you. The other guys -
I did you a favor by standing up for you last night, but don't think we're friends. I'm sorry, but I have other things -
They're gonna do a job. Three million dollars, maybe more.

So what is it you do, Mr. Kint?
Umm ...
A hijacker like Dean, here? Or something more creative?

That's enough, Edie.
I don't know what you came here for, but we won't have any part of it.
Edie, please.

Get out.
If you'll just let me -

Don't hurt me.
Hurt you, you sonofabitch? I could kill you.

They - That's bullshit. They don't operate anymore.
McManus has a friend in the Fourteenth Precinct. They're coming out for one job - Thursday. They're picking up a guy smuggling emeralds out of South America. Fenster and McManus have a fence set to take the stuff.

What fence? Who?
Some guy in California. His name is Redfoot.
Never heard of him.

You have to come.
What's with you? What do you care whether I come or not?

They - They don't know me. You do. They won't take me unless you go. Look at me. I need this.
Tough break.
Don't tell me you don't need this. Is this your place?

You watch your mouth.
Okay, okay. You say it's the real thing? That's cool.

I was out of line.
You okay?
I'11 be alright.
Well, I'm sorry.
Forget it. I'11 probably shit blood tonight.

How are they going to do it?
McManus wants to go in shooting. I said no way.
Fenster and Hockney?
They're pretty pissed off. They'll do anything. Now I got a way to do it without killing anyone: but like I said, they won't let me in without you.
Three million?
Maybe more.
No killing?
Not if we do it my way.

I'm sure you can understand my hesitation.
Then who goes?
We all go. How about it, Keaton?

We'll make it.
Don't do this. Send her a card - something.
We'll make it.

Heartwarming. Really, I feel weepy.
You wanted to know what happened after the line-up, I'm telling you.
Oh come on, Verbal. Who do you think you're talking to? You really expect me to believe he retired? For a woman? Bullshit. He was using her.
He loved her.
Sure. And I'm supposed to believe that hitting the Taxi Service wasn't his idea

That was all Fenster and McManus.
Come on. Keaton was a cop for four years. Who else would know the Taxi Service

You keep trying to lay this whole ride on t Keaton. It wasn't like that. Sure he knew, but Edie had him all turned around. r I'm telling you straight, I swear. +
Let me tell you something. I know Dean Keaton. I've been investigating him for three years. The guy I know is a cold- + blooded bastard. L.A.P.D. indicted him on three counts of murder before he was kicked off the force, so don't sell me the hooker with the heart of gold. +
You got him wrong.
Do I? Keaton was under indictment a total + of seven times when he was on the force. + In every case, witnesses either reversed + their testimony to the grand jury or died + before they could testify. When they t finally did nail him for fraud, he spent + five years in Sing Sing. He killed three prisoners inside - one with a knife in the tailbone while he strangled him to death. Of course I can't prove this but I can't prove the best part either.

I don't know about that.
I don't think you do. But you say you saw Keaton die. I think you're covering his ass and he's still out there somewhere. I think he was behind that whole circus in the harbor. My bet is he's using you because you're stupid and you think he's your friend. You tell me he's dead, so be it. I want to make sure he's dead before I go back to New York.
He wasn't behind anything. It was the lawyer.
What lawyer?

You think I don't know you held out on the D.A.? What did you leave out of that testimony? I can be on the phone to Ruby Deemer in ten minutes.
The D.A. gave me immunity.
NOT FROM ME, YOU PIECE OF SHIT. THERE IS NO IMMUNITY FROM ME. You atone with me or the world you live in becomes the hell you fear in the back of your tiny mind. Every criminal I have put in prison,

There was a lawyer. Kobayashi.
Is he the one that killed Keaton?
No. But I'm sure Keaton's dead.
Convince me. Tell me every last detail. 52 SCENE DELETED 52 53 INT. HOSPITAL - DAY 53 + Kovash's room is now filled with people. Jack Baer stands next to DANIEL METZHEISER, a balding man in his forties. Next to him is Doctor Plumber. Across from her is Ridgly Waiters.

&lt;&lt;We were there to buy a man and take him back to Hungary.&gt;&gt;
He says they were buying It doesn't make sense. I'm sorry, I'm a little rusty. They were there to buy something.

Not dope. Something else. Some what?.. He doesn't knob what they were buying. But not dope... people.
&lt;&lt;I'll tell you everything. I'11 even say it slow enough for you to understand it. Just tell this man I want protection. Real protection.&gt;&gt;

&lt;&lt;No, no, no. I need a guarantee from the ridiculous man. I am going to be killed. I have seen the Devil and looked him in the eye.&gt;&gt;
No good. He needs guarantees. He says... his life is in danger... He has seen the Devil... looked him in the eye.

&lt;&lt;Keyser Soze. Keyser Sate. I've seen his face. I see it when I close my eyes.&gt;&gt;
He says he knows his face. He sees it when he closes his eyes.

We're on vacation.
I've got a ton of work and no good people.

Take your time. Enjoy L.A.
A friend of mine in New York tells me you knew Spook Hollis.
I hear you did time with old Spook. Yeah, he was a good egg. I used to run a lot of dope for him. Fuckin' shame he got shivved.
I shivved him.

Better you hear it from me now than somebody else later.
Business or personal?

A little of both.
Ain't it a crime? Call if you're interested.

What is it Keaton?
Something - I don't know. I ever tell you about the restaurant I wanted to open?

DON'T MOVE, YOU FUCKERS.
RIGHT THERE. FREEZE.

Get a grip. I didn't know.
You didn't know.

The job got thrown to me by this lawyer.
Who is he?
Some Limey. He's a middle-man for somebody. He doesn't say and I don't ask.
We want to meet him.
He wants to meet you. He called last night and asked me to set it up. What do I tell him'
Tell him we'll meet.

So this lawyer...
Kobayashi.
Came from Redfoot.
Right.
And why leave this out when you talked to the D.A.?

Jack. What are you doing here?
I've been looking all over for you. You still after the coke that walked out of that blood bath in the harbor?
Yeah.
You can stop looking. There was no coke. I've been in L.A. county with a guy they

There was ninety-one million -
We know, but our man says no way on the dope. This Hungarian tells me the whole bunch was pulling stumps for Turkey the next' day. They had no time to negotiate that kind of product and no means to move it.
What was the money for?
He didn't know. No one doing the deal knew except a few key people. This guy says they were real hush about it. Whatever it was it was highly sensitive.
I don't get it.
They tell me you got the cripple from New York in there. He mention Keyser Soze
Who ?
Bear with me here...

My employer requires your services. One job. One day's work. Very dangerous. I don't expect all of you to live, but those who do will have ninety-one million dollars to divide any way they see fit.
Who's your boss?
My employer wishes to remain anonymous.
Don't jerk me off. We all know what this is. You don't work with me if I work with you without knowing who I'm working for. Now let's cut the shit. Who's the man?
I work for Keyser Sate.

What is this?
Who's Keyser Soze?

You set up the line-up.
Mr. Soze made a few calls, yes. You were not to be released until I came to see you. It seems Mr. Keaton's attorney, Ms. Finneran, was a bit too effective in expediting his release. Holding the rest of you became a moot point.
What about Redfoot?
Mr. Redfoot knew nothing. Mr. Soze rarely t works with the same people for very long, and they never know who they're working for. One cannot be betrayed if one has no people.

Everybody I ever worked with, did time with.
They fucking know everything.

This is not right.
I don't know. Who was that guy that used to talk about Soze in New York?

Yeah. He said he did jobs for him. Indirect stuff. Always five times more money than the job was worth.
Come on. The guy is a pipe dream. This Kobayashi is using him for window dressing .
I don't know. This is bad.

It's bullshit. This guy could be L.A.P.D. I think it's a setup.
The way I hear it, Soze is some kind of butcher. No pity.

Do you believe in him, Verbal?
Keaton always said: &quot;I don't believe in God, but I'm afraid of him.&quot; Well I believe in God, and the only thing that scares me is Keyser SOZE.

I came clean. I told it like it happened on the boat. So what if I left out how I got there? It's got so many holes in it, the D.A. would've told me to blow amnesty out my ass. So you got what you wanted out of me. Big fucking deal.
And this is why you never told the D.A.
You tell me, Agent Kujan. If I told you the Loch Ness Monster hired me to hit the harbor, what would you say?
Turn state's evidence. Take the stand on this and we'll hear it out.

I've got immunity now. What can you possibly offer me?
If there is a Keyser Soze he'll be looking for you.
Where's your head, Agent Kujan? Where do you think the pressure's coming from? Keyser Soze - or whatever you want to call him - knows where I am right now. He's got the front burner under' your ass to let me go so he can scoop me up ten minutes later. Immunity was just to deal with you assholes. I got a whole new problem when I post bail.
So why play into his hands? We can protect you.
Gee, thanks, Dave. Bang-up job so far. Extortion, coercion. You'll pardon me if I ask you to kiss my pucker. The same fuckers that rounded us up and sank us into this mess are telling me They'll bail me out? Fuck you. You think you can catch Keyser Soze? You think a guy like that comes this close to getting fingered and sticks his head out? If he comes up for anything, it will be to get rid of me. After that, my guess is you'll never hear from him again.

&lt;&lt;It was smaller than that. Sharper.&gt;&gt;
+ The nose is sharper. Smaller too. + &lt;&lt;And what about the hair? You said something earlier about it.&gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;It is longer than that. And not so dark. &gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;Are you sure?&gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;Don't be stupid.&gt;&gt;
He says the hair is longer and lighter.

That was how I ended up in a barber shop quartet in Skokie, Illinois.
This is totally irrelevant.
Oh, but it's not. If I hadn't been nailed in Illinois for running a three card monte in between sets, I never would have took off for New York. I never would have met Keaton, see. That barber shop quartet was the reason for everything.
Can we just get back to Kobayashi?
The quartet is part of the bit about Kobayashi. The quartet was in my file, along with every other thing I had done since high school, see? Aliases, middle- men. They knew me better than I did. They knew all of us.

You're stalling, Verbal.
Give a guy a break, huh?
What happened?

Then what?
McManus was furious. He was talking about tracking him down and ripping his heart out and all sorts of shit. That night we got the call.
What call?
Kobayashi told us where we could find Fenster.

Keaton, we gotta go. They're gonna find him.
Dig.

What are we gonna do?
I can run. I got no problem with that.

I wanted to. I thought we could make it.
Why didn't you say anything?
I tried, believe me, but Keaton wouldn't have it. It was too far-fetched for him. Keaton was a grounded guy. An ex-cop. To a cop, the explanation is never that complicated. It's always simple. There's

The answer is no.
Mr. Soze will be most -
Listen to me, cocksucker. There is no Keyser Sate. If you say his name again, I'11 kill you right here.
A strange threat. I can only assume you're here to kill me anyway. Pity about Mr. Redfoot.

Ahh, Mr. Hockney. Do join us.
We know you can get to us, and now you know we can get to you. I'm offering you the chance to call this off.
Mr. So- My employer has made up his mind. He does not change it.
Neither do we.

I am sorry, Mr. McManus. f implore you to believe me, Mr. Keaton. Mr. Soze is very real and very + determined.
We'll see.

What did you say?
Edie Finneran. She is upstairs in my office for an extradition deposition. I requested she be put on the case personally. She flew out yesterday.

No matter. Kill away, Mr. McManus.
You're lying.
Am I? 92 92 INT. HALLWAY - FIFTIETH FLOOR

It's a logistical nightmare. Close quarters, no advance layout, ten men, maybe twenty.
Can we stealth these guys?
Doubtful. With all that coke, they'll be ready - which brings me to sunny spot number two. Even if one of us gets through and jacks the boat, we get nothing.

Me too.
Did you hear what he just said?
If I'm going in, I want a stake.

What-are they speaking?
Russian, I think. I don't know.
Hungarian?

Keaton, I can't just -
I want you to find Edie. Both of you find some place safe. Tell her what happened - Everything. She knows people. She'll know what to do. If we can't get Kobayashi my way, she'll get him her way.
What if I
Just do what I tell you.

A boy came across a body on the beach this morning. Thrown clear when the boat burned. Shot once in the head. Two guys from the F.B.I. just identified him. +
And ?

His name was Arturo Marquez. A petty smuggler out of Argentina. He was arrested in New York last year for trafficking. He escaped to California and got picked up in Long Beach. They were setting up his extradition when he escaped again. Get this - Edie Finneran was called in to advise the proceedings.
Kobayashi.

Keyser Soze
There's more.

A man in a suit with a slim build. Tall.
Wait a minute.
I don't have a minute. Are you saying it was Keyser Soze? You told the D.A. you didn't know who it was.

Don't shine me, Verbal. No more stalling. You know what I'm getting at.
I don't.
YES YOU DO. YOU KNOW WHAT I'M GETTING AT. THE TRUTH. TRY TO TELL ME YOU DIDN'T KNOW. TRY TO TELL ME YOU SAW SOMEONE KILL KEATON .

TRY TO REEF LYING TO ME NOW. I KNOW EVERYTHING .
I don't know what you're talking about.
YOU KNOW. YOU'VE KNOWN THIS WHOLE FUCKING TIME. GIVE IT TO ME.

I don't understand what you're saying. I saw Keaton get shot, I swear to you.
Then why didn't you help him?
I WAS AFRAID, OKAY? Somehow, I was sure it was Keyser Soze at that point. I couldn't bring myself to raise my gun to him.
But Keaton...
It was Keyser Soze, Agent Kujan. I mean the Devil himself. How do you shoot the Devil in the back?

He was a stool pigeon for the Justice Department. He swore out a statement to Federal Marshals that he had seen and could positively identify one Keyser Soze and had intimate knowledge of his business, including, but not exclusive to, drug trafficking and murder.
I never heard of him.
His own people were selling him to a gang of Hungarians. Most likely the same Hungarians that Sate all but wiped out back in Turkey. The money wasn't there for dope. The Hungarians were going to buy the one guy that could finger Soze for them.
I said I never heard of him.

But Keaton had. Edie Finneran was his extradition advisor. She knew who he was and what he knew.
I don't
There were no drugs on that boat. It was a hit. A suicide mission to whack out the one man that could finger Keyser Soze so Sate had a few thieves put to it. Men he knew he could march into certain death.
But how - wait. You're saying SOZE sent t us to kill someone?

Verbal, he left you behind for a reason. If you all knew Soze could find you anywhere, why was he ready to send you off with the money when he could have used you to take the boat?
He wanted me to live.
Why did he want you to live? A one-time dirty cop without a loyalty in the world finds it in his heart to save a worthless rat-cripple? No, sir. Why'
Edie.
I don't buy that reform story for a minute. And even if I did, I certainly don't believe he would send you to protect her. So why?
Because he was my friend.
No, Verbal. You weren't friends. Keaton didn't have friends. He saved you because he wanted it that way. It was his will.

No...
Keaton was Keyser Soze
NO.

NO, NO, NO, NO, NO.
THE KIND OF MAN THAT COULD HAVE KILLED EDIE FINNERAN.

Edie...
He used all of you to get him on that boat. He couldn't get on alone and he had to pull the trigger himself to make sure he got his man. The one man that could identify him.
This is all bullshit.
He left you to stay behind and tell us he was dead. You saw him die, right? Or did you? You had to hide when the first police cars showed up. You heard the shot, just before the fire but you didn't see him die.
I knew him. He would never -
He programmed you to tell us just what he wanted you to. Customs has been

If he's dead, Verbal - if what you say is true, then it won't matter. It was his idea to hit the Taxi Service in New York, wasn't it? Tell me the truth.
It was all Keaton. We followed him from the beginning.

I didn't know. I saw him die. I believe he's dead. Christ
Why lie about everything else, then?
You know what it's like, Agent Kujan, to know you'll never be good? Not good like you. You got good all fucked around. I mean a stand up guy. I grew up knowing I was never going to be good at anything 'cause I was a cripple. Shit, I wasn't

You're not safe on your own.
You think he's..?
Is he Keyser Soze I don't know, Verbal. It seems to me that Keyser Sate is a shield. Like you said, a spook story, but I know Keaton - and someone out there is pulling strings for you. Stay here and let us protect you.
I'm not bait. No way. I post today.
You posted twenty minutes ago. Captain Leo wants you out of here a.s.a.p., unless you turn state's.
I'11 take my chances, thank you. It's tougher to buy the cheapest bag-man than it is to buy a cop.
Where are you going to go, Verbal? You gonna run? Turn states evidence. You might never see trial. If somebody wants to get you, you know They'll get you out there.
Maybe so, but I'm no rat, Agent Kujan. You tricked me, that's all. I won't keep my mouth shut 'cause I'm scared. I'11 keep it shut 'cause I let Keaton down by getting caught - Edie Finneran too. And if they kill me, it's

I know what I wanted to know about Keaton.
Which is shit.
No matter. He'll have to know how close we came.
Keyser Sate or not, if Keaton's alive he'll never come up again.
I'11 find him.
Waste of time.
A rumor is not a rumor that doesn't die.
What?
Nothing. Something I - forget it.
<|endoftext|>
