Where's John?
Performing solo. Enjoying the concert so far?

What did Cox pull him out early for?
Barnes used to work for him when he was still a cop in the field, remember?
Don't remind me.

What the hell happened?
Lindenmeyer developed neural connectors that tap directly into the nervous system. If the simulator isn't calibrated properly, experiencing death in this level of VR is like experiencing death within a dream. The experience becomes real.
Simulations are supposed to give participants practice in realistic, dangerous scenarios while protecting them from the risks they are exposed to in the real world.
I was assured the problem was corrected.

My first two pairs of convicts suffered the same fate.
Why wasn't I told?

You all right?
Why'd.. .you pull me out?
Donley started experiencing the attack for real. If I hadn't gotten you out, the same thing would have happened to you. You may not believe this, Parker,

What the hell did you have to shoot the busboy for?
He was a computer program for crissake.
You were supposed to act as if everything was real.
Real, my ass. It's an overblown game. Anybody ever catch that fucking psycho?
Before you, nobody else had gotten close enough to Sid 6.7 to take a shot at him. Hell, nobody else had even been able to start tracking him before he got to them first. New scar you making it okay in there?
I'm getting by.

But with the six months off I get for being your guinea pig, I've only got to survive another 17 years, 5 months, and 23 days.
Don't give up, Parker. Not ever.
You know those cheesy Christmas cards of your family under that tree in your back yard you keep sending me every year?
What about them?
Do me a favor keep sending them.

Don't be angry with me, Daryl.
Did you recognize the son-of-a bitch who got away?
Should I have?
Think hard -- it'll come to you...

You embarrassed me in front of the highestranking law enforcement official in the country. Do you have any idea how much money you just cost me?
The reason you insisted on testing my system with prisoners is because of the increased risks involved with increased realism.
Of the six prison inmates you've tested all of whom have had at least some military or survival training - only Mr. Barnes is still breathing.
I'm still making adjustments...
You've had a yearandahalf to make all the adjustments you want, Lindenmeyer. ) Elizabeth Deane does not give second chances. Neither do I. You're fired.
I'M WHAT?!
You are to turn over the Sid 6.7 program, and all its documentation, for immediate destruction. Is that understood?
I understand... I understand perfectly.

How does he know who I am?
He hears...everything.
As a matter of fact, I do.

To the first LETAC engineer to go into production on prototypes.
As long as you keep overpaying me, I'll be the first to go into production on three, and four, as well.
As long as they keep overpaying me, I'll keep overpaying you. ) Just make goddam sure you can have 10 of them ready for deployment around the city by next month.
Mr. Wallace, I could have 10 of them ready by tomorrow.
Do they have to look so...robotic?
At this stage, you either get form or function. You said she wanted function. I gave you function. What are you complaining about?

All they want to produce around here is mediocrity!
True genius is rarely rewarded within its lifetime.
It was you, wasn't it?
It was me, what?
You amped the neural connectors back up, didn't you? You're the reason the convict died. You're the reason I got fired!
I couldn't just let them make you bring down my degree of difficulty. I'm a triple-twisting, double back flip off the high platform, not a swan dive.
My God...
Which God would that be, the one who created me, or the one who created you? In your world, the Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away. But in my world, the one who gave me life doesn't have the balls to stop a couple of bureaucratic assholes from taking it away.
What do you expect me to do, put your character module in my pocket and just walk you out of here?
I had something a little different in mind. Instead of just playing Peeping Tom with Reilly, why don't you get him to show you what he's been working on after hours?

You actually listen to all those tapes?
No, I just like the effect a tape recorder has on you. How you feeling today?
A little less than yesterday.
In other words, par for the course. How do you feel about the simulation you participated in yesterday?
John died.
I know. I was there. I saw the whole thing. If I was your therapist, I would have advised you against putting yourself back into that kind of situation.
You're not my therapist. You're hear to study me. Face it I'm nothing more than a lab rat to you.
That's not true, Parker.
If I had died yesterday, you'd have already dissected my brain and analyzed it to see if I carry any genetic predisposition toward violence.
What was going through your mind when you killed the busboy?
Not much. He was just a computer program. Nothing more.
You didn't see the expression you had on your face when you pulled the trigger. But I did. You kind of liked it, didn't you? That thrill of going over the edge again. Of taking out an innocent bystander or two, as long as you got the target...
Go to hell.
It was just like before, wasn't it? Wasn't it? But you are making progress. Instead of killing seven people to get the one you're after, this time there was only one other person involved.
Enough!

I need to know what snapped in you. What made you capable of it. You have to make me understand.
I don't have to do anything except survive. And it's taking everything I've got just to do that.

HEY!!!
Show's over unless I get to see what you've been working on after hours.
I haven't been working on anything.
Do I get to see it or not?
Bastard... Sheila, don't go anywhere. I'll be right back.

She's some of your finest work, Daryl.
All my work is my finest.

Get that fucking thing away from me!
You're...such a wimp.

Watching your VR people Auto Reset gave me the idea.
It's nanotechnology, isn't it? Machines the size of molecules...
Coordinated by polymer neural net.
It feels so.. .real.
It's better than real. It's synthetic flesh. Synthetic blood. Synthetic organs... It's a physiological machine.
This is supposed to be years away.
As far as the public is concerned, it is. The reason you got fired, and I got my second demo into production, is I'm a lot smarter than you. I never give my best stuff away.
How do you kill it?
Separate the character module from the neural net...

... and you get nanodeath. Don't worry, I've got a bunch of other ones.
Amazing. I hate to say it, but it is.
I know. I'm ready to incubate something a little more advanced than a coldblooded reptile. If you want to experience the future, meet me in my office in 15 minutes. And bring the Sheila 3.2 character module with you...

You catching my drift?
I think I understand what you have in mind...

You need a maid.
What I need is a nymphomaniac.

SID NO!!!
What do you expect me to do, thank him?

You're wasting your time. I'm not going to play any more of your goddam games.
Parker Barnes, I'd like you to meet Crime Czar Elizabeth Deane.
It's too early in the morning for me to be cordial. You got any coffee?

I watched your simulation, Mr. Barnes. Very impressive. You know, you're the only one to ever go up against Sid 6.7 who is still alive.
Only because I got pulled out early.
Nobody else ever got anywhere near him. Nobody else... understands him like you do.

These were taken inside LETAC an hour ago. Pretty pictures, aren't they?
I've seen worse.
Name was Clyde Reilly. Hardware specialist. LETAC surveillance cameras got a picture of the perp as he left the building.

We don't know how, but Sid 6.7 made himself into an android.
You mean a nanotech synthetic organism.
Whatever.

Jesus Christ. Can you kill it?
If you can catch him.

Think you can do it?
Not from in here.
This is a full pardon. It authorizes your immediate release.

Recognize this? How would you like your old job back?
Catch him and your record's clean.

What happens if I can't catch him?
If Sid 6.7 hasn't killed you, we throw you back in here and you serve out the rest of your sentence.
How do you know I won't run?

This is the newest technology approved for general implementation. It's called a locater implant. Every parolee gets one. We're going to know where you are every second for the rest of your life.
If you try to run, I'll hunt you down and kill you myself.
Yes or no, Mr. Barnes?

There's already a task force out looking for Lindenmeyer. Every other officer in the city will be hunting Sid right along with you.
But only you will know he's not human.

Ms. Deane, you wanted to see me?
We have an emergency situation which requires somebody with expertise in criminal psychology. Under the authority vested in me by the President, I'm giving you temporary reassignment.
What's the assignment?
You're going to put your theories to practice. I'm sending you into the field.

That's also where Mr. Barnes lost his arms to Mathew Grimes' booby trap. What's your point, Dr. Carter?
Letting a lunatic like Parker Barnes loose in the free world is like lighting a fuse. At some point, he will go off -- you saw what happened in the simulator. The risk to the public is unacceptably dangerous.
Not if you're with him every step of the way.
The man played judge, jury, and executioner with eight people's lives. He lost control and is capable of doing it again.
I understand the risks involved here. But there is nobody better qualified to go after Sid 6.7 than Barnes. And, there is nobody who knows him better than you. If a situation becomes volatile, you will find a way to quell it. I have complete confidence in you.

I don't need a babysitter.
What you need is a collar.

She's going to help you understand what makes Sid 6.7 tick.
What she's going to do is get in my way.

This is the personnel file on the programmer, Lindenmeyer. There might be something in it you can use.
She wasn't part of the deal, Cox.
Fine you want to stay here?

Officers in Toluca Lake just found an affluent couple...completely gutted. So were the first two cops to arrive on scene.
Their weapons missing?
Sid 6.7 is now armed.
Where's my gun?

Every day for the last five years, I told myself someday I would be out here again. No more bars. No more guards. No more fights just to stay alive. Every day for the last five years, I told myself that lie.
It wasn't a lie.
Every time I said it, it was. I never really thought I was going to make it.

You all right?
Fine. Never felt better in my life. See, I'm a good liar.

You ready for this?
Don't worry. If I can't handle it, I'll just kill everybody.

He was reenacting Charles Manson's LaBianca murders.
Manson didn't kill the first cops to arrive on the scene.
Whoever did this wanted to do Charlie one better to improve upon what was already done.
Charlie? You say that like you're close, personal friends.
I've spent over 50 hours interviewing him. Charlie killed Leno and Rosemary LaBianca because of the ugly way the members of his family had butchered Sharon Tate. After seeing the blood bath on television, he wanted to show them how it should be done. The question is, what does Charlie have to do with Sid 6.7?
I know who would know.

Learn anything from Lindenmeyer's file?
He had a twin brother who was a musical child prodigy who died in an electrical accident at age eight. Lindenmeyer went into an emotional shell until was 17. All he did day and night was play the violin.
What happened when he was 17?
Every music school in the country rejected him and he turned to computers. Stay here.

You've got a problem with me carrying a gun?
Do me one favor if you shoot at anything, make sure I'm nowhere near it.

What are you doing?
Checking my pulse. It's elevated. You enjoy frightening me, don't you?
You've studied me, now I'm studying you. Seems only fair, don't you think?

This Lindenmeyer's a real piece of work.
Maybe after they catch him, you should write a book about him...

I'm surprised you didn't write one about me.
I'm still working on it.

Remember a few years ago when music schools were using a computerized teaching tool that accidently started frying kids' brains?
I've been in prison, remember?
The government must have figured there was no better person to create a psycho than a psycho.
Just like they figured there was no better person to catch one...

I am the demon from the bottomless pit...
... here on earth to create havoc and terror. I am War, I am death. I am destruction. David Berkowitz, 1977.
I am impressed.
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak with most miraculous organ.
Who said that?
Hamlet. What's David Berkowitz got to do with Sid 6.7?
He's part of the mix. Sid 6.7 is a composite.

Lindenmeyer put increasingly complex combinations of criminal psychological profiles together to develop the ultimate villain.
Creating a whole far more dangerous than the sum of its parts.
But rather than selecting pieces from each individual, he simply let the stronger traits of each individual cannibalize the weaker ones.

This is getting you pumped up, isn't it? This is like the World Series to you.
As a matter of fact, it is.

Remember the bowling ball bag Sid carried with him in virtual reality?
Dahmer carried the head of one of his victims in a bowling bag for over a week. Kept it in his locker while he was at work in a candy factory. We need to get a look at Sid 6.7's final profile.
What we need to do is stop playing with computers and go catch the sonof-a-bitch before he kills anybody else.
In order to find him, we have to understand what makes him tick...

) Daryl Lindenmeyer was only here briefly, one semester at most. But he was singularly the most brilliant student I ever had in a classroom. He created programs so beautiful, so lyrical, they were almost like symphonies...
Can you tell us what's on the disc?
) There is one program with approximately 1.3 million lines of programming. It is thoroughly secured, which is not surprising considering Lindenmeyer created it.

What are they doing in Los Feliz?
Madison lives two blocks from their present location.
Why would they be going there?
I don't know.
I wish we could hear them.

Give me your wrist.
Give me a goddam break. I'm not going to go anywhere alone.
And I'm going to make sure of it. Give me your wrist.

Told you I wasn't going to go anywhere.
How did you get your hand out?

Why didn't you tell me you had a daughter?
I prefer keeping my professional life separate from my personal life.
She's beautiful, you know?
Thank-you. Her name is Karin.

Want to tell me the real reason we stopped at your house?
I told you, it was on the way and I wanted to change clothes.
You should practice lying more often. You're awful at it. Where to?
Sid 6.7 is no longer bound by his programming.
What does that mean?
Now that he's in the real world, there are no longer limitations on his behavior like there were in virtual reality. Sid is going to evolve.
Sounds to me like a welleducated way of saying you have no idea what to do next.
What I do know is that whatever he's becoming, Sid 6.7 is going to be even worse than he was before.
Then all we can do is stay mobile and alert. He's got to make a move sometime, and we've got to be ready when he does. Welcome to police work. You better like coffee.

I forgot what real coffee tastes like...
You know, considering you've only been out of prison for seven hours, you're readapting quite well. Wait, I didn't mean that the way it sounded. I meant...
Don't worry about it, all right?
Dammit, I hate sounding so clinical all the time. All I meant to say was I thought you were doing well, but then I...
Relax. I know what you meant.
I ruin so many moments by analyzing them when I should just be living them.
Then why don't you start practicing and keep your mouth shut for a while?

Don't get out of the car.
Stop me.

What the hell's going on?!
This is my area of expertise.

What did you do to those people?
Nothing.

Being on the street's a little different than sitting in an office all day, isn't it?
Enjoying yourself?
You know I am.
This isn't a game, Parker!
Tell him.

The symphony of collision...
The only thing I want to hear is your silence.
I must make them very nervous if they let you out of prison. You know, we have so much in common we have such history together I've been thinking we should become friends.

You and me have nothing in common.
Who else do you know who touches the world with synthetic hands?

What's the problem?
I'm doing the best I can!

... illegal search of Lindenmeyer' s duplex. Eleven civilian vehicles damaged or destroyed. Twentyfour citizen complaints. And the calls are just starting to come in... I forgot what it's like to have you on the streets.
Any sign of Lindenmeyer?
None. He could be hiding, he could be helping Sid, or could be in little pieces on Santa Monica beach. Any idea what Sid's going to do next?
Until we know what new influences are affecting him, we can't be sure.
In other words, we collectively don't know shit.

It makes me nervous just seeing him in a uniform. I will never forget the first time I saw the photos from the crime scene.
Neither will the public. The media has caught wind of his pardon. Unless Mr. Barnes starts giving me some tangible results, I'm going to put him back in his cage.

In English, please.
I accidently triggered a protection mechanism which erased the entire program.

It was very wellhidden. There was no way to see it until it was too late.
It's not your fault. We appreciate you trying.
Look, I feel bad about this, so I'm going to try to look into the programming of his Maestro teaching tool for you. ) I've had one sitting around for years. Maybe I can learn something that you'll find useful.

Whatever he was doing here was only the start.
Start of what?
I don't know, yet. What we do know is his performances are increasing in scale, not decreasing. Whatever it is, he isn't finished...

It's not just Sid 6.7's performances that are increasing. Stars need bigger and bigger audiences. Whatever Sid is going to do next, it's going to involve media.
You like baseball?

Real effective security...
You could have just flashed him your badge, you know?
Authority still makes me nervous.

Which way?
Both.

Parker - stop! STOP! Don't make me shoot you
If you're gonna do it, better do it now.

Grimes is back! He's back! He's come back!!!
No! Grimes isn't back. He's only one part of Sid. Sid 6.7 is a hell of a lot worse than Grimes ever was. Get a hold of yourself!

I should have told him.
Don't blame yourself. In your shoes, I don't think I would have told Parker, either. So do you think Grimes has become the dominant personality?
I'm not sure. My guess is that's what Sid wants us to think.
You think he's smart?
Captain, I'm afraid of how smart Sid 6.7 is. But I'm even more afraid of what's he's becoming.

You...mother...fucker! I'M GOING TO KILL YOU!!!
Now, is that any way to talk to an old buddy? I mean, just because I'm carrying around the joy of killing your family inside me doesn't mean we can't be friends.
GRIMES, YOU'RE DEAD!

I'm sorry, the party you're trying to reach is not answering. Is there anyone else you would like to talk to?
DEAD! YOU HEAR ME?
You really are pathetic, you know that? Mathew Grimes is only one letter in my alphabet. He is nothing compared to me.

Barnes wouldn't kill two innocent guards.
He would slaughter eight people sitting in a room, but not two prison guards?
Do I need to remind you what happened to his wife? To his daughter? I will stake my reputation that Barnes didn't kill those guards.
You already have staked your reputation. Mayor Bennett and I have been friends a long time. Since Grimes tried to kill him, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to come to the conclusion that Sid 6.7 might go after him, too. Bennett's Re-Election Rally is tomorrow night and we already have enough trouble on our hands with one psychotic on the loose. The fail-safe online, yet?

There is no way Parker killed those guards. No way.
I think we both know who did. What's so urgent?
I need your help--

Why didn't anybody tell me?!
I don't set policy. You have the key?

Give me 30 seconds, then flip every switch you can reach.
Got it.

We know you didn't kill those guards.
They're going to fry me for it, anyway.

Don't worry, they have no idea where you are.
You sonofabitch. How could you let them put the implant in my head? How?

He didn't know about the neural toxin. I did.
You knew the entire time? Can you give me one good reason why I shouldn't kill you right now?

She saved your life, Parker. She didn't have to, but she did.
Then I guess we're even.

How did you find out about the toxin?
Sid 6.7 told me after he killed the two guards. He suggested I kill you rather than him.
You're not capable of it.
I pose an unacceptable danger to the public, remember?
I was wrong. And I was wrong not to tell you Grimes was part of Sid. I should have told you. I won't make the same mistake again.

When this is over, will you get this goddam thing out of my head?
On my life, I promise you I will.
If you're lying, I'll hunt you down and kill you myself.

The rally's a little obvious as a target, don't you think?
I told you before, Grimes liked to be obvious.
Sid 6.7 isn't Grimes.
Part of him is.

If we find Sid, Lindenmeyer won't be far behind.
Think he's keeping track of his creation?
That, or living through him...

See something?
I'm not sure...on the bridge...the guy at the payphone...

Nice work.
Thanks.

I wouldn't pull the trigger if I were you
Why's that?

What C-4...was Cox talking about?
Let me put it to you this way... whether I'm here...or whether I'm not...I'm leaving an indelible mark on the world tomorrow night.
Where did you plant the C-4?!

Find out anything?
A bomb's going off tomorrow night, but I have no idea where.

Can I ask you something?
You mean there's something you haven't asked me?
You've already fulfilled the terms of your pardon. You stopped Sid 6.7 and you've got his module. You're free to go right now. Why are you going to do this?
You don't know?
That's why I'm asking.
Because this painintheass criminal psychology expert has helped me understand what I'm capable of. And what I'm not. And better than anyone else, I am capable of stopping Sid 6.7.

What C-4...was Cox talking about?
Let me put it to you this way... whether I'm here... or whether I'm not...I'm leaving an indelible mark on the world tomorrow night.
Where did you plant the C-4?!

You can't die until you tell me where the C-4 is. Where is it?!
My...secret.

I told you this would work.. By setting back the clocks, he has absolutely no idea he's in virtual reality. He still thinks he's in the real world.
What's wrong with Parker?
How should I know?
Show me his physical sensory level.

I wonder how that...
Turn it down!

He's developing a hemisphere imbalance.
Talk so I can understand.
If I don't adjust the level of neural information each side of his brain is receiving, he won't be able to walk when I take him out of VR.
Then fix it.

It's really too bad you have to miss the Grand Finale.
I thought you liked me being in the audience. Don't you want me to see it?

There you go best seat in the house.
You are going after Mayor Bennett.
Let's just say I'm sending a very clear message to his ReElection Rally...

Aren't you going to watch with me?
I've got some final preparations to take care of Checking his watch, he stops suddenly.

Thank-you, Daryl. You had me going for quite a while there, sport.
What are you talking about?
I really did think I was still in reality. At least, until now. Beam me up, Scotty!

I am beautiful, aren't I?
Of course you are.

How can I ever thankyou for bringing me back to life a second time, Daryl?
Help me get out of here.
Glad to...

You made me a composite of 183 of the most vicious people who ever lived. What do you think I'm doing?
I'm begging you...please don't kill me! Please!
Don't worry. Through me, you will live forever...

You okay?
...I think so...You?
More or less.
Lindenmeyer?
My guess is dead.
Sid?
I don't know.

Barnes, where the hell have you been?!
Trying to find out where the bomb is. Where the hell have you been?
What did you find out?
Call off the manhunt looking for me. I didn't kill the transport guards.
It's already been called off. Witnesses confirmed you weren't the shooter. Did you find out where the bomb is?
No, but I've confirmed the reelection rally is the target. How much C-4 is missing?
Enough to level an entire city block.
If I were you, I'd get every demolition team in the city searching in and around the Biltmore Hotel.
Demolition teams have searched everywhere in and around the hotel. I don't know where...
Sid is smart enough to know you'd check everywhere in the immediate area. Whatever the device is, he's probably got it timed to move into position just before it detonates. Have the demo teams check every subway tunnel, water pipe, gas pipe, and sewer pipe that goes under, over, or into the arena.
You know how much man power you're talking about?
You're the highest law enforcement official in the country. Use the fucking army if you need to.

This better not be a wild goose chase.
Or what, you'll authorize my death a second time today?
Don't forget, convict, if this psycho isn't stopped, you go right back to rotting in a prison cell.

You son-ofabitch, I'm going to kill you.
Me? What did I do?

I'm sorry, I thought you were somebody else.
I've discovered something about Lindenmeyer'5 Maestro teaching tool I thought you should know... The harm done to the music students who used the device it was not by accident. The machine was designed explicitly for that purpose. Lindenmeyer intended to hurt the kids using it.
Jesus Christ. I know who the dominant personality is. Lindenmeyer.

Where the hell are you going?
Lindenmeyer never got over wanting to kill kids with more musical than he had...

Now, is that any way to talk to an old friend?
BARNES, YOU'RE DEAD!

How's your pulse?
I couldn't tell you.
Then shoot him already.
Duck!

What do we do now?
You won't want to watch. Turn around.
<|endoftext|>
