Dr. Jones.
Lao She.
Nee chin lie how ma?

You never told me you spoke my language, Dr. Jones.
I don't like to show off.

So, it is true, Dr. Jones? You found Nurhachi?
Sure, I found him. Then last night I had a little trouble. Somebody tried to slit my throat.

You have insulted my son.
Next time I'll cut off more than his finger.
Dr. Jones -- I want Nurhachi.

What's that?
A bonus, Dr. Jones. That is poison. You just drank the rest of it.

Now what about the antidote, Lao.
At last I have the ashes of my sacred ancestor!

I like the service here.
Hey, he's not a waiter...
No, Wu Han's an old friend I brought along. So, the game's not over. Put the antidote on the table, Lao.

Look out, damn it, I need that antidote!
Who cares? Where's that diamond!

Wow! Holy smoke! Crash landing!
Step on it, Short Round!
Okey-doke, Indy! Hold onto your potatoes!

For crying out loud, a kid's driving the car?!
Relax, I've been giving him lessons.

Listen, we just met for crissake! I'm not that kind of girl!
Don't get your hopes up -- where's the antidote?

You don't look very good.
Poison never agrees with me. Pull a right, Short Round, and head for the Wang Poo bridge!

What're we going to do?! Where're we going?!
The airport... No, look out, Short Round! Left, left!

You got the tickets, Short Round?
Sure, Indy -- three tickets! You, me and Wu Han --

I'll take the extra ticket. Where's this plane going anyway?
Siam.
Siam? But I'm not dressed for Siam...

So, what're you supposed to be, a lion tamer?
Since I was nice enough to let you tag along, why don't you give your mouth a rest? Okay, doll?

I'm freezing. What do you mean, tag along? From the minute you walked into that nightclub, you haven't been able to keep your eyes off me.
Oh yeah?

I get it!
You got it!

Are you crazy, a lift raft?! We're not sinking, we're crashing!
Get over here, damn it! Short Round, come on, grab onto me tight!

Indy?
Okay, Shorty.

You all right?
No... I'm not cut out for the kind of life you lead. Oh no... I ripped my dress. Where are we anyway?

India...
Holy cow -- India? How do you know we're in --

What'd he say?
He told me they knew I was coming here.
What do you mean -- how?
The old man saw it in a dream.
Dream -- nightmare is more like it.
He said that's whey they were at river -- they were waiting for the plane to fall down.

God, I am starving, but I can't eat this...
That's more food than these people eat in a week. They're starving, too...

On the way to Delhi, you will stop at Pankot.
Pankot isn't on the way to Delhi.
You will go to palace there.
Hasn't the Pankot palace been deserted since the Mutiny of 1857?
No. Now there is new Maharajah -- and palace is powerful again.

It is Pankot Palace that kills my village.
I don't understand. What's happened here?
The evil starts in Pankot. Then like monsoon, it moves darkness over all country.
What evil?
They came from Palace and took sivalinga from out village.

Took what?
It's a sacred stone in a shine that's supposed to protect a village.

It is why Krishna brought you here.
Nobody brought us here. Our plane crashed. We were shot down by --
No. We pray to Krishna to help us find the stone. It was Krishna who made you fall from sky -- so you can got to Pankot Palace. To find sivalinga -- and bring back to us.

Indy, they make our plane crash? To get you here?
It's just superstition, Shorty. Like a ghost story.

Was the stone very smooth? It was probably brought here from a sacred river.
Long ago -- before my father's father.
And it had three lines painted across it? The lines represent the three levels of the universe. I've seen stones like the one you lost.

But why would the Maharajah take this sacred stone?
They say we must pray to their evil god. We say we will not.

And then they took their children.
Their children?

You will find them when you find sivlalinga.
I'm sorry, I don't know how I can help you here.

What'd he say now?
It was destined that I came here -- and the future cannot be changed...

I ride with you, Indy?
Nope, you got a little surprise over there, Shorty.

This is the first time anybody ever cried when I left.
They don't cry about you. They cry about the elephants leaving.
Figures...
They got no food to feed them. So they taking the elephants away to sell them.

Hey, Willie -- I think you better get out now.
Stark naked? You wish... If you're trying to seduce me, Dr. Jones, this is a very primitive approach.
Me seduce you? Honey, you're the one who took your clothes off. I just came over to remind you that you never know what else might be in the water.
Somehow I feel safer in here.

Indy! Help me!
Don't worry, I'm coming in! What is it?
A snake!

A what...?
A SNAKE!!

Hurry, help me out of here! What're you waiting for?!
Uh, listen -- Willie -- I got a better idea.
What?!
First of all -- don't panic!

Don't let it pull you deeper!
It's pulling me deeper!
Don't let it curl around you!
It's curling around me! Damn it, stop talking and do something!

Listen, Willie. Do exactly what I tell you now.
What?!
Can you move your arm?
Just one arm!
Okay, I want you to lift your hand -- and pet the snake.
PET IT??!!
Yes, stroke it right along the maxillary and precaudal vertebrae.
THE WHAT?!
Pet it on the head! Go on, pet it!

Oh -- my -- god -- it's going to crush me!
Keep stroking it!

What's happening?
It's starting to let go!
That's good -- you're doing fine.

Thanks for nothing! I hate snakes!
I know the feeling...

Where'd you find your little bodyguard?
I met Short Round when he tried to pick my pocket.

Shorty's family was killed when they bombed Shanghai. He was living on the streets.
He'll be okay. He's a good kid.

By the way, how'd you end up in Shanghai?
Well, when my nightclub career was run over by the Depression, some pinhead convinced me that "a girl could go places in the Orient..." So, look where I got.

What about the future?
Oh, that's easy -- I'm going to latch onto a good-looking, incredibly rich prince.

I'd like to find one of those myself.
Oh really?
Yeah, but he's got to be dead and buried for a couple of thousand years. Fortune and glory...
Is that what you're hoping to find at this palace, Dr. Jones?
Maybe...

The drawing shows a priest named Sankara who lived centuries ago.
What does the writing say?
It's Sanskrit. It tells the story of Sankara climbing Mt. Kalisa where he met the Hindu god Shiva.
That's Shiva? What's he giving the Priest?
Legend says he told Sankara to go forth and combat evil. To do that he gave him five sacred stones that had magical powers.
You mean magical like the rock that was stolen from that village?

I think you should sleep closer. I meant for safety.
I'd be safer sleeping with that snake.

Couldn't keep away, huh?
Just try and control yourself.

Indy, look!
That's it. Pankot Palace.

What you look at, Indy?
Just a statue.

He's afraid of something.
He said he couldn't take us any farther. He has to go sell the elephants.
You mean we have to walk the rest of the way?

Any more complaints?
Yeah, I wish you'd thought of this sooner...

I would say you look rather lost. But then I cannot imagine where in the world the three of you would look at home...
Lost? No, we're not lost. We're on our way to Delhi. This is Miss Scott -- and Mr. Round. My name's Indiana Jones.
Dr. Jones? The eminent archaeologist?

Hard to believe, isn't it...?
I remember first hearing your name when I was studying at Oxford. I am Chattar Lal, Prime Minister for His Highness the Maharajah of Pankot.

The plane crash and your journey here sound -- most incredible.
You should have been there...

We'd appreciate it if the Maharajah would let us stay tonight. We'll be on out way in the morning.
I am only his humble servant, but the Maharajah usually listens to my advice.

He's not exactly what we call "a spring chicken".
No, no, that is Uhmed Singh, the present Maharajah's late father.
Oh -- good. And maybe the present Maharajah is a little younger? And thinner?

They will escort you to your rooms now. You will be provided with fresh clothes. Tonight you will be dining with His Highness.
Dinner? And with a prince?! My luck is changing. But look at me -- my god, I've to get ready!

I've always had a weakness for folk dancing.
She might get away with that act here, but she'd never make it in a real nightclub.

Captain Blumburtt and his troops are here to check up on the "natives".
Just a routine inspection tour.
The British worry so about their Empire -- it makes us feel like well- cared-for children.

Listen, Mr. Lal, what do you call the Maharajah's wife?
His Highness has not yet taken a wife.
No? Well, I guess he just hasn't met the right woman...

Interested in local curios?
No. But I am interested in the occult. And this is a kryta.

Charming.
It's like the voodoo dolls of West Africa. The kryta represents your enemy -- and gives you complete power over him.
Thank God all that mumbo jumbo rubbish is disappearing.
You think so?
Of course. Admittedly, it's taken time. Britain's controlled India for almost two hundred years now.

You're hanging on better here than you did in America.
This is a different situation, Dr. Jones. These people are like children. We have to lead them slowly into the twentieth century.

The Prime Minister doesn't seem that naive.
No, he's a very shrewd old boy. Power behind the throne and all that. He actually runs this whole province.

I believe we're being called to dinner.
Finally!

That's the Maharajah -- that kid?!
Maybe he likes older women.

Cheer up, you lost your prince, but dinner's on the way.
I've never been so hungry in my life...

I had a question, Mr. Prime Minister. I was examining some of the Maharajah's artifacts.
A very fine collection of very old pieces, don't you think?
Yes, very fine. But not all of the pieces look old. Some were carved recently and look like images used by the Thuggees to worship the goddess Kali.

Dr. Jones, you know very well that the Thuggee cult has been dead for nearly a century.
Of course. The Thuggees were an obscenity that worshipped Kali with human sacrifices. The British Army wiped them out about the time of the Mutiny of 1857.

I suppose stories of the Thuggees die hard.
There are no stories anymore.
Well, I don't know... we came here from a small village and the peasants there told us that the Pankot Palace was growing powerful again -- because of some ancient evil.

Their stories are just fear and folklore.
Maybe... but how do you explain The Thuggee shrine I saw right below the palace?

Give me your hat...
What for?
I'm going to puke in it...

You know the villagers also claimed that this palace stole something from them.
Dr. Jones, in our country a guest does not usually insult his host.
Sorry, I thought we were just talking about folklore.

I'm sure it's nothing. Just rumors. What was it they claimed was stolen?
Something magical. A sacred rock.

There, you see, Captain. A rock!
When they lost this rock their fields and animals died. They also said their children were taken from them.
I think that's enough of this nonsense, Dr. Jones...

I was dubious myself at first. Then something connected -- the village's rock and the old legend of the Sankara Stones...
Dr. Jones, we are all vulnerable to vicious rumors. I seem to remember that in Honduras you were accused of being a grave robber rather than a scientist.
The newspapers exaggerated the incident.
And didn't the Sultan of Madagascar threaten to cut your head off if you ever returned to his country?
That was a misunderstanding.
Exactly what we have here, Dr. Jones.

Rather bizarre menu, wouldn't you say?
Even if they were trying to scare us away, a devout Hindu would never touch meat. Makes you wonder what these people are...

That little Maharajah think he big stuff.
You don't like him do you?
Next time I flatten him! Did you see his eyes?
No.
Indy, they glow like fire and get real crazy! Then he talk in this real scary voice!

He was afraid of you. He knows a tough guy when he sees one.
Yeah, that's what happened...

Not leftovers?
No -- real food.

You're nice. Listen, I'm taking applications -- how'd you like to be my palace slave?
Wearing your jewels to bed, princess?

Yeah -- and nothing else. That shock you?
I'm a scientist. I like doing research on certain "nocturnal activities" --

Primitive sexual practices?
You're talking to an authority in that area.

You're dying to come into my room, aren't you?
You want me so bad, why don't you invite me?
Too proud to admit you're crazy about me, Dr. Jones?
I think you're too used to getting you own way, Willie...

We'll see who gives in first -- I'll leave my door open.
Don't catch cold.
Dr. Jones?

Five minutes... you'll be back over here in five minutes...
You're dreaming, Willie. You want to make it real, just knock on my door.

Get to sleep Indy -- I stay up and keep eye on things...
Okay, Shorty... see you in the morning... I'm going to have a little -- word with Willie.

No -- don't you see -- crawling --
What -- the bug?

Get -- the -- bug -- off!
Gee, I wouldn't want to touch an ugly critter like that!

Oh no -- oh no!!
You know, Willie, I'll bet he's mad because they were eating his friends for dinner.
Please -- oh please, I'm going to die! Get it off!

What does it mean, Indy?
"Follow in the footsteps of Shiva. Do not betray his truth."

What?!
Willie, come here! Hurry up, we're in trouble!!

WILLIE?!
I'm coming, what's the rush?! Ohh! What's that?! There's stuff all over the floor! I can't see a thing!

There's bugs! Bugs all over! Help! Help me!
Willie, open the door! GET US OUT OF HERE!

GET US OUT! Willie, shut up and listen! There's got to be a fulcrum release! Look around!
A what?!

A fulcrum release lever!
I can't find any lever! Help me Indy!

There's a hole! I found a square hole!
That's it -- the release lever -- look inside!
I am -- it looks horrible!

Oh God, it's soft -- it's moving!
Willie!

What is it...?
It's a Thuggee ceremony. They're worshipping Kali, the goddess of Death and Destruction.

Oh my God! He ripped out his -- he killed him!
No... the heart's still beating!

Let's go! Let's get out of here!
Quiet!

The village knew their rock was magic -- but they didn't know it was one of the lost Sankara Stones...
Why they glow like that?
Legend says that when the stones are brought together the diamonds inside of them will glow.

Wait -- what're you doing?
I'm going down.
Down? Down there?! Are you crazy!
I'm not leaving without those stones.
You're gonna get killed chasing after your damn fortune and glory!
Maybe... someday. Not today.

This is Nainsukh -- from the village. They bring him here to dig in the mines.
Why?

You were caught trying to steal the Sankara Stones.
Nobody's perfect. The way I heard it, you stole one of them from a small village.

There were five stones in the beginning. Over the centuries they were dispersed by wars, sold off by thieves like you...
Two are still missing.
No. They are here -- somewhere. A century ago when the British raided this temple and butchered my people, a loyal priest hid the last two stones down here in the catacombs.
That's what you've got these children -- these slaves digging for?
They dig for the gems to support our cause. They also search for the last two stones. Soon we will have all five Sankara Stones and the Thuggees will be all powerful!
Nobody can say you don't have a vivid imagination.
You do not believe me? You will, Dr. Jones. You will become a true believer.

Jones isn't in his room. Miss Scott -- my troops are leaving at dawn if you want us to escort you to Delhi --
No -- you can't go! Something awful's happened. They've got Short Round and I think Indy's been --
What?
We found a tunnel that leads to a temple below the palace! Please, come with me, I'll show you!

Miss Scott, you're not making any sense.
I'm afraid they'll kill them! We saw horrible things down there -- they had a human sacrifice and they ripped a man's heart out!

Who?
It's some kind of cult! And they've got the sacred stones that Indy was searching for.

I sense the fumes of opium in all this. Perhaps Miss Scott picked up the habit in Shanghai.
What're you talking about -- I'm not a dope fiend! I saw it! I'll show you!

It's okay. You're all right now.
They think I'm insane. Tell them I'm not, Indy. Please -- help me ...

What?
You've got to go to sleep now.
I want to go home...
I don't blame you... this hasn't been what you'd call a fun vacation...

I've spent by life crawling around in caves and tunnels -- I shouldn't have let somebody like Willie go in there with me.
Miss Scott panicked?
When she saw the insects she passed out cold. I carried her back to her room. She was sleeping when I re- entered the tunnel to look around.

Then she must have run out of the room and you found her.
Did you discover anything in that tunnel, Dr. Jones?

Well, Mr. Prime Minister, my report will duly note that we found nothing unusual here in Pankot.
I'm sure that will please the Maharajah, Captain.
As I said before, we'd be happy to escort you to Delhi.

Indy? Did you talk to them?
Yes.
So now they believe me.
Yes, they believe you.

I was scared to death last night when I thought they were going to kill you.
No... they won't kill me.
You know you've been nothing but trouble since I hooked up with you -- but I have to admit I'd miss you if I lost you...

Mola Ram is telling the faithful of out victory. He says the British have left the palace, which proves Kali Ma's new power.
Yes, I understand.

You understand what he tells us?
Kali Ma protects us now and for ever, and we must pledge our devotion by worshipping her with an offering of flesh and blood!

What're we going to do?!
There's got to be another way out.

I can't!
Go!

Come one, what's wrong?
Behind you!

I don't appreciate being cooked like a french fry!
Willie, come on!

Slow on the curves or we'll fly off the tracks!
Read you loud and clear, Indy!

Let up on the brake!
What?

Let her go! Our only chance is outrunning them!
What above the curves?!

Anymore ideas...?
Yeah -- this time you're gonna help!

That's far enough!
You are in no position to give orders, Dr. Jones.

Give me the stones!
Mola Ram -- you're about to meet Kali -- in Hell!

No, the stones are mine!
You're betrayed Shiva.

I guess Mola Ram got what he wanted.
Not quite.

The last Sankara Stone.
And they don't even know what it really is.
Well, you didn't get your prince, and there goes your diamond.
You didn't do so well yourself. Finding that stone could've gotten you all the fortune and glory you were talking about.
It's still a long way to Delhi. Who knows what might happen.
<|endoftext|>
